Hello, welcome to our
course on sampling people, records, and networks,
part of a specialization on data collection methods being done
through the University of Michigan. My name is Jim Lepkowski and I'm a Professor and Research Professor
Emeritus at the University of Michigan. And we'll be conducting this course
teaching through these lectures as well as assembling materials for
you the students to work through to help you understand the material
that we're talking about in lecture. We're interested here in sampling methods
as applied in a particular set of areas. Sampling methods, in this particular
case we're going to be dealing with respect to the social sciences. It's an activity that we all do in many
different ways, and so I don't want to restrict our labeling of sampling to just
what we're going to talk about here. But we're going to do a restricted
range of sampling activities here. But we want to acknowledge that sampling
can have a lot of different applications. And we do sampling in our
everyday lives for example. Without even knowing
we're doing it sometimes. We're all used to sampling foods,
I think I'll have a little of this, or a little of that. Or entertainment events, let's just see
what it's like to do this, or to do that. Or sometimes experiences, let me try
it one time to see what it's like. Our bodies are sampling machines,
even when we do something like vision, we're constantly sampling only
a part of the environment around us. And it's done very quickly, we are not
really conscious of it for the most part. And so
what we see is what our mind controls, in terms of sampling
the environment around us, but that sampling is ubiquitous
in the science as well. For example, physicians use samples
of patients all the time to draw conclusions about risk factors for
disease for everyone. They will draw conclusions on the basis of the patients that they see
in the clinical practice. And then use that and their training
to draw conclusions about what happens to an individual patient who's
coming in next or just to generalize. Physicists use samples of an environment to draw conclusions about
the entire universe. They only are able to directly
observe certain things that are in an immediate environment. And then they extrapolate
to an entire universe. That's a sampling process as well. Chemists do this,
where they use samples of chemicals to see how processes operate in
the laboratory and elsewhere. In the social sciences,
psychologists use samples. Sometimes psychologists will use samples
of undergraduate students to make inferences about how everyone, regardless
of age, will behave in different settings. And so this kind of thing goes on because
that's the material we have to work with. We can't observe all,
we observe a portion and that makes it an operation
based on a sampling. Often when we think about these
things though, in science or even in our everyday life, we're making an
assumption that the environment around us that we're using to examine
a particular phenomena is uniform. That is, we're willing to assume for
example, that risk factors for disease affect everyone in the same way. Even though we've only observed
those risk factors and the disease in a particular setting, in a particular
location, in a particular point and time. We're willing to make inferences about
what would happen in another time, in another setting. And oftentimes that kind of
conclusion is perfectly sound. But we are here going to be more careful
about looking at what the sample tells us then, if our assumptions are correct
about the uniform mixing. What happens for
the particular happens for all. So for a physicist it's probably
a safe assumption to make, that the environment is well-mixed,
and one sample from one location will have the same properties
as a sample from other location. And similarly for the chemist, and so on. But in the social and health sciences,
and in many other areas it can be misleading to assume uniformity
or random mixing as it's sometimes called. And that one sample is
as good as another for drawing conclusions about the population
from which the sample was drawn. In this course what we're going to do is
look at what we know about how sampling can be done to deal with the non-uniform,
the non-mixed world we live in. We're not going to rely on assumptions
about how the atmosphere, or chemical compounds, or people, or
disease etiology is distributed. We're going to be looking at sampling
methods that instead force the mixing, not in the population, or assumptions
about the population, or the environment, or the flask, or elsewhere. But in the sample. We're going to look on how we can
use random processes in selection to avoid the need for assumptions weak or
strong about the population. And to avoid the kind of bias that can
sometime arise when our assumptions are wrong. Hence on this slide
the appearance of the dice. We're going to play dice with the sample. Not as Albert Einstein once
speculated with the universe, but with the sample and
how we assemble that sample. We're going to address
the problem in several steps. Here we have the units that we're going
to be discussing these issues in, six of them. In the first, in Unit 1, what we're going
to do is talk about research design. And how sampling and its use in surveys
work together as research tools. We're not going to look at all
kinds of research designs. We're going to look at the survey and
the survey sample and data collection that goes with
that kind of an operation as a subset of the many tools
that we could use in research. But in this particular case, we're going to be talking about the ideas
of sampling in a survey setting. And typically I'm thinking
about survey samples of people, hence the name of the course. Although when we sample records,
we're thinking about people, those are typically records about people,
although they don't have to be. As well as networks which
are groups of people. So it's mainly about sampling human beings
here that we're going to be talking about. There we're going to move in Unit 2
to talking about sampling techniques. And by techniques we're referring to
the process that are used by researchers to select samples. Now there are actually three basic
tools that we're going to consider in this course. They're not the only ones,
but three basic ones. And the first in Unit
2 is random selection. Usually sampling that uses
just random selection is referred to as simple random sampling. Now I've used the title here,
Mere Randomization. Only randomization,
that's what I mean by that. We've used the term here that is somewhat unusual to make
the point that the usual term, simple random sampling actually conotes
something else than just randomization. But it's got the same meaning,
that was the intent of the terminology. But that's what we're
going to do in Unit 2, is just what happens if we only use
randomization in the selection process. Units 3 and
4 introduce the other two factors, and these lead to a set of techniques that are
related to each of those factors that we use in sample selection. One technique or set of approaches
have to do with grouping the elements in the population and selecting groups
instead of selecting individual units. This is done to reduce costs. This is what's called cluster sampling. The second technique that we deal
with is one that also does grouping, but here the grouping of the sample of
the population into various groups, or stratas they'll be called, so-called
stratification is used to control the efficiency of what we're doing,
the effectiveness of what we're doing. Stratification can actually be used as
we'll see to give us better quality and almost the same cost as
mere random sampling. And so it becomes the technique that is
automatically used because randomization serves as a foundation, but
stratification, grouping and these kinds of efficiency gains
are very inexpensive to obtain. And one of its going to do
those almost automatically. Regardless of whether we group and
then select or we select groups as in cluster sampling, we're only going to talk about how to do
this when we use randomization in them. Now Unit 5, we're going to go back to a technique
that sometime people introduce first. It's a very easy way to draw samples,
something that we do automatically. It's what's called systematic selection,
or just counting. Counting and taking every so many. There are some pitfalls to be aware of. And we will go through those because we
want to provide you with some tools that make you a little more sophisticated
in your application of the technique. And we'll emphasize when these kinds of
pitfalls that we run into are important. How to remedy them and when one might not
want to use that particular technique. Then we're going to wrap up
the course in Unit 6, by dealing with a couple of extensions that make sampling
easier to do for records and for networks. And we're going to deal with those
briefly, such issues as how to deal with the complexity, as opposed to the
simple nature of simple random sampling. The complexity of the design,
when using clusters and strata, and its impact on the conclusions that we
draw, and about the quality of our data. As we do this, I'm going to
organize this with some additional sidebars in our displays that I just
wanted to illustrate that here. We're going to have multiple
lectures in each unit. And as we jump to a unit, we'll have two
things to keep track of, the units and lectures. I'm going to use a box like this
in the upper left of our slides to alert us to when we're
talking about units, as here. Or about lectures as shown here. So here I've expanded Unit 1 into seven
lectures that we're going to be doing. And before the lecture I'll remind us,
me as well as you, what it is we're talking about
in the context of this unit. So here we see that there are seven
lectures planned for Unit 1. They are displayed in both the main
box on the center of the screen as well as to the left. And that's just to help
me keep track of them. And I'm actually going to
highlight those issues. So for example here highlighting lecture
one to say that that's what we're going to be talking about today. And as we do that highlighting then and
move into lecture one, we'll introduce the topics that we're
going to discuss in lecture one, and then we've got a reminder that yes,
we're in lecture one, but these are the particular topics
that we're talking about. And then finally, we're going to move
into each of the topics one by one, but on the upper left we'll have
a smaller box that displays what topics within the lecture we've got. And I hope that will help you understand, as sometimes these things
we will go a little long. Just where we are in the progression and
the flow. But that's enough about format,
I just want to say a few more remarks before we get started about
our consideration of research design. We're going to open Unit 1 on
sampling as a research tool and lecture one about research design and
sampling. We're going to get a little more into
the context, the setting, for example, of what we're talking about. My hope is, that as we go through these
lectures, you'll come to appreciate how the techniques we talk about, in the
context of surveys, of people, records and networks, can be applied to other areas. Especially as we understand
how they are applied to these particular kinds
of research subjects. Two last things before we start, you may find that as we go through these
lectures I express some enthusiasm. It's a little hard for
me to do as a statistician and mathematician but I can be enthusiastic
about this stuff because I like it. I've done this a long time, I really
find this a very powerful research tool. And I've seen some of my colleagues
do amazing things with these kinds of approaches to research design. And that I find that these
are a very powerful set of methods, they're not perfectly structured,
there are some fundamental flaws to these kinds of things
philosophically, to these approaches. But on the surface, in the theory,
what we have are a set of methods that don't require us to make assumptions
up front about what we're doing. And [COUGH]
provide us with a very good starting point, for beginning to think about
how we should do our samples. So when I think about doing a sample
design, a sample for a particular research problem, I come back to the fundamentals
I'm going to be talking about. So I'm going to talk
about fundamentals and principles as though they could exist
in practice as we talk about them. In actual practice, we have to depart from
these kinds of approaches all the time. But if you're going to make departures, you better know what
you're departing from. And so that's the point here. We're providing a baseline, a foundation. From which once we understand that
foundation we can make some departures and make practical decisions that mean
the difference between whether we can conduct a piece of research or we can't. So I think about these as
foundational kinds of issues and this is particularly true with
respect to randomization. I'm going to make some statements here,
that for teaching purposes are exaggerated. For example, I'm going to say that
randomization gives us the ability to draw conclusions without making assumptions. Technically that's true,
but in practice it's not, because we end up having to depart
from true, randomized selection. When we deal with
deficiencies in our samples, units failing to respond,
we can't get data for them, and in those cases we actually begin to make
assumptions that help us post-collection, post-selection, address
some of those deficiencies. This is what's sometimes
called a frequentist approach, I won't go into discussion of that. Others prefer more of a model-based
approach to these kinds of things. But I'm going to stick with that approach,
because it's fairly standard in the field. It's not to say that the alternative
is wrong, or inferior. It's just to say,
that's what we're emphasising here. Let's understand this approach,
before we attempt to do something along the lines of dealing with
more principled approaches. Okay, I'm ready if you are. Let's turn to our first lecture, and
look at what happens in research design, and how survey samples fit into
the context of research design. Thank you.