Hello again, welcome back to our
continuation of our discussion about research design and sampling. And the role of randomization and
sampling in research design. We've just discussed in our first unit
here, in first lecture, some of the basics about the research and two kinds of
research designs that are often used. Experiments and quasi-experiments or
pseudo experiments. One involving randomization and
the other involving no randomization but observation. And what we're going to do here is
talk about this same set of issues. But now we're going to move on to talk
about a third kind of research design, one in which we talk about survey samples. Now experiments are considered to be
non observational in the sense that, yes, you're observing things. But the exposure to a background
characteristic such as a treatment is determined on the basis of an objective
system such as randomization. Quasi-experiments are one in which
the assignment is based on purely history, or observation of where people are. Cigarette smokers or
people who don't smoke cigarettes. In survey samples, this is observational
as well, with regard to how people get assigned to different groups, different
comparisons that we may want to make. And so it's again observational, but randomization of peers here
in a different context. And we want to talk about that to begin
understand something about research design, how this fits in. So sample surveys originated in Western,
Northern, and Northwestern Europe
in the 19th century. And they really were originally designed
to deal with describing populations. As a matter of fact, some statisticians like to make the
distinction between two types of surveys. So that they maybe surveys should
be thought of as experiments and non experiments, experiments and
quasi-experiments. Some period surveys in their
minds are purely descriptive. They're designed to describe a population. What's going on in this population? Once it get a snapshot of the population
at a particular point in time. And [COUGH] other surveys though are
designed as they would determine analysis. Comparing, testing hypotheses. So they'll sometimes divide them
into a numerative analytic. But the distinction between them actually
is almost irrelevant in practice. Because I know a few surveys
that are purely in numerative, descriptive, and no analysis is done. And I know of analytic
surveys in which almost no analytics survey whether in some
description that has to be done first. So [COUGH] it's kind of a general
distinction that doesn't exist. But both functions occur in
the same survey typically. The key aspect of survey samples though is
not the distinction between description and analysis,
it really is that they are observational. That we're not taking something and
putting it in an artificial setting. We're doing it as it naturally
occurs in everyday life for people. Now, the observational study may be
observational for a national sample. And I'm going to take as an example
here a survey done in Turkey. The country between
the Black Sea on the North and the Mediterranean Sea to a certain
extent on its South and West. And Turkey's an interesting case,
because it does a nationally representative survey to collect data
that represents the demography and the population characteristics
of the Turkish population. And examine such things as births and
deaths and fertility and family change and health characteristics. This is the demographic in
health survey of Turkey. Now, from the point of view of
an experimenter, quasi-experiment. [COUGH] The best we can say scientifically
about the use of survey data such as this analysis, is it we're going to
be explaining what's going on in the health and
fertility of the Turkish population. And we can't establish causal mechanisms. We can describe, we can also co-relate
these things, correlate them. But we cannot conclude from a survey
like this that there is a cause, like polio vaccine that
leads to an outcome. We have strong evidence as in the Doll and Hill study, that there is a relationship
between cigarette smoking and lung cancer. That there's a relationship between
let's say, nutritional status and certain kinds of health outcomes. And that strong association may be so
strong as to say, well we really don't need to do
an experiment or test this any further. We're very confident that this is indeed
an association that we need to pay attention to, and
maybe develop some new policy around it. All right, so there's no randomization
people into [COUGH] poor nutrition, and good nutrition. That occurs through
complex at a processes. We observe what's there and
then we observe the outcomes, what outcomes are like for
the two different groups. But there is randomization
in these surveys. There was randomization in the demographic
in health survey in Turkey. And this particular study that we're
referring to the demographic in health survey in Turkey
has over the years, every five years, been done as a measure
of trends in these characteristics. But it only makes sense to compare
trends if the data are collected in such a way as to be representative
of the population each time. Otherwise, if the samples were
arbitrary or haphazardly assembled, and not entirely clear whether they
were represented each time. When we go to compare what happened
in 1995 and 2000 and 2005 and 2010 to 2015, we wouldn't know why
there were differences if we saw them. Was it because of the sample or was it
because of changes in the population? So what we'd like is a sample that gives
us a snapshot of that population at each of those time points. So that we can compare
across those time points and see what kinds of trends are going on. So these surveys are done
in five year intervals. And if we've got good snapshots
at each time interval. Then we can say, well the differences
that we observed really have to be due to changes in the population,
not changes in how the sample is selected. Okay, so Turkey has a population
of about 77 million people in the latest demographic and
health survey which was conducted in 2014. And that study had 12,000 households. And it had nearly 10,000
women ages 15 to 49 who were examined from those
12,000 households. It was a fairly large scale operation and
they are doing fertility estimation, for example. So how did they select the sample? They used the kind of techniques that
we are going to be discussing and talking about the remainder
of this course. A key component of the selection
was that it was random. There were no subjective selections made. It was not selections made either
by happenstance, by convenience. It was a carefully selected sample in
which the women in each household, each household were selected
through a random process. And the selection carefully controlled for
geographic distributions and age distributions in the selection. One can trace through the procedures that
were used to select a sample such as this one. The probabilities of selection of each
of the individuals in the sample. And ultimately one could do that for
those who are not in this sample. We can identify,
much like in the randomized case, who was to receive the vaccine and
who was not. We know who was to receive the sample
administration and the data collection. And exactly what their
characteristics were, and thereby, who the non
sample cases were as well. The observations are then made on
the households and the people. There is no randomization to treatment
groups to women having been exposed to let's say, a particular form of
contraceptive and those who were not. No, that was an observation. What did they actually do? How many women had actually
used a particular method? And who were those women and
who were the women who did not? The data were realistic then. They were collected at a particular point
in time, in settings were people live, in their households. And because of the procedures
used in the sample selection, the sample was representative
of the population in Turkey. Not only overall,
all the households, but also for a subgroup of the residence of those
households, women 15 to 49 years of age. There was not an experimental
manipulation. The randomization was in
the selection mechanism. And as I've said, this was where the randomization mechanism is applied to
divide that population into two groups. A group that's in the sample and
a group that's not. Now the group that's in
the sample is very small, relative to the group
that's not in the sample. That's very different than experiments,
where most experiments will tend to allocate the same number of
individuals to each treatment group. In sample surveys, it's a very small
fraction that are getting the treatment, if you will of being in the sample. But they use randomization nonetheless,
just in a different way and for a different purpose. The purpose here is to establish a group
that represents the full population. At least represents them in terms of on average has the same characteristics
as the full population. And so this gives us a way of
avoiding any kind of subjective bias that might have gone in to the section. Where we've arbitrary chosen locations or pacticular individuals,
who have particular characteristics and then are sampled doesn't
resemble the population. We're being objective about it
to this probability selections. And thereby eliminating some of the
difficulty that we face with subjective choice and
then bias due to subjective choice. Going back now, thinking back through
our experiment, our polio vaccine trial, our quasi-experiment,
our study of smoking and lung cancer. And now thinking about
a sample survey describing and understanding the nature of fertility,
demographic characteristics, health, and how those are interrelated. We see that there's some
principles that are emerging, some things that have happened. And I'm going to describe something
that as I mentioned, a sociologist named Leslie Kish define three principles
that he extracted from this process. And he labeled them as the 3 R's because
of the first letter of each of these. Now in education, in English there
are 3 R's as basic principles or learning or education or
at least there used to be. For a student to have
a well rounded education, they needed to be prepared in three areas. The first was reading which begins with
an R to study requires that basic tool. But the second principle was that of
being able to express themselves. To write, except the word write
doesn't begin with an R, but it sounds like it does. Begins with a w, but write the second R. And the third was that they needed
to be able to do computation and manipulation of numbers. To be able to succeed in commerce or in
many other areas, simple basic arithmetic. Now they're again, it's the 3rd R
doesn't begin with an R, the third word arithmetic begins with an A, but
nonetheless the R is the second silent. So those 3 R's would be what every
student should have reading, writing in arithmetic is basics for
learning and understanding in school. These 3 R’s that have been
replicated in other areas. For example, in studies of environment
there are the 3 R’s of reduce, recycle and reuse as ways of dealing with
our environment an ecology. Here in research then we have the 3 R’s,
pardon me, again the first being that the study design needs to
be embedded in a realistic setting. Realism is what we're concerned with. Now experiments, this is a problem,
they can be very unrealistic. Gathering together those children
from schools that volunteered, they can be in a very peculiar group. But one didn't worry about that in
a particular case because the size of the sample was so large. But you can imagine artificial
laboratory or clinical setting, where is not very very realistic,
when they are administering new drug. And they are calling people every day,
did you take your medication today? I know I don't have anybody calling me
everyday to ask me if I have taken my medications, that were tested
in such studies decades ago. So it wasn't realistic yet it still
has valuable information and insight. A quasi-experiement and
sample surveys are embedded in reality, because they observe what is happening
to the sample subjects directly. There's no interfering laboratory or
clinic to distort or cloud judgment about what
actually happened in the study. Our second principle we'll be talking
about is to use randomization. Experiments use randomization
to assure equality across groups to make sure then that
the comparisons yield conclusions only about important differences between
the groups, the ones that matter. The difference being
experimental condition, no experimental condition experience. Quasi-experiments lack that randomization
and so as a result they're more attentive. It's not that we can't use
quasi-experiments insights, but we need more evidence. We need to do more testing and formal media conclusions are not
as really available to us. Sample surveys are kind of in
a split here with randomization. They're like quasi-experiments for
examining subgroup differences. They use the observed values, but they do
use randomization in order to assure no differences between population and sample. And so we get other kinds of things here. And by the way, here's another
example of the 3 R's adapted. It's a very popular and
powerful idea in American culture for example, Franklin Delano Roosevelt. He created something called
the New Deal in the 1930s to address the Great Depression, the Great
Economic Depression in the US, and he had 3 R's of the new deal,
relief, recovery, and reform. So this idea is just what Professor Kish
used in his ideas, realism, randomization, and
our third, representation. Randomization actually doesn't
guarantee representation. We'll see this, and so
one needs to go further. Experiments seldom make any attempt,
sometimes but very rarely, make any attempt to have representative
groups that they examine. They're going to take
individuals who are convenient, available, perhaps haphazardly
assembled for their studies. Quasi-experiments probably some of
the same, although quasi-experiments more often would use a more
carefully selected sample. But surveys base their foundation,
their claim to a place at the table among research designs
on the basis of randomization to obtain a sample that is going
to resemble the population. Even though more is needed than
just randomization to achieve that. So there we have it,
the 3 R's of research design. With these 3 R's in mind now, we should say more about just
what we mean by sample surveys. And in our next lesson,
lesson 2 that's highlighted here, we're going to talk about surveys and
sampling and how they interrelate. And why the two word sample survey are put
together, like the way we've been doing in this course and in this program that
we're assembling the set of courses. And so
we want to look at what it means for the kinds of surveys as we're going to
talk about in the rest of the course. So join me in lecture 2 in this unit
on sampling as a research tool, where we're going to look at how
samples are used in surveys. Thank you.