Hello, and welcome back to our course on
sampling people, records and networks. My name again is Jim Lepkowski,
the instructor for this course, and we're going to be talking about our first
lecture here, under our first unit. Where we're going to be talking
about sampling as a research tool. And so in this particular set of materials
what we going to be doing is opening our earlier lectures about sampling as
a research tool where this is a lecture on research in general, research design,
and how sampling fits in. And sampling will fit in in the context of
surveys which we're going to classify as a type of research design. Now there are basically two
parts to this lecture, and we'll pause between the two
parts as we go along. The first part will be about research
design and we're really going to talk about experiments, and close experiments,
and have a couple of illustration too. Set in in our minds the nature of
experiments with human populations, and then we're going to in the second
part talk about the principles of these designs in the context
of survey samples. We'll move in to talk about survey
samples then in the second part and about the underlying principles, what I'm
calling the three r's of research design. But that brings us to then talking
about research designs and surveys. How do these two things fit together? And as I said we've got these two parts
that we're going to be examining, and I'm going to be operating under the assertion that
surveys are part of scientific research. Surveys are used in other context too,
as our other search designs. But here for scientific research
when you're thinking about surveys that are formally done to address
a particular research problems and hypothesis that go with
those particular problems. We're going to talk about them in terms
of idealized designs as we do this. Now, within research design, when people talk about research they
typically think about experiments. Experiments in which there's some
kind of a scientific novelty, there is something that we're looking at,
that's new. And we're comparing and contrasting it with something that we
already have in place or never had. We're going to look at something new and
contrast it, and so we tend to think of a laboratory
with these kinds of things. The scientist working quietly away
on some observational studies, carefully documenting findings and reporting them to other scientists before
they are shared with the larger public. Now you'll notice an image
on the lower right, a composite one from
Nicholas Tesla's laboratory. And of course, this one's a composite,
this is several pictures, images laid one over the other
of something that is going on. This didn't happen all at one time,
but it's very striking. Now this looks like experimental
science in action, right. Well, yes and no. This is fine for
studying natural phenomena, but what about phenomena involving people. And so in doing that here we need
to be a little more refined. And these are not principles that test and
interviews but just once we need to think about more explicitly when talking
about what we do with human beings. Experiments are idealized manipulations. Idealized manipulations of
major kinds of phenomena. A thing that we're attempting to examine,
or phenomena we're attempting to examine and
contrasting with something else. So there's a comparison that's going on,
and there is a major variable
that we're interested in and then something that we are using
as a background to compare it to. And we'll talk about that in
the context of one experiment in the middle, in a minute. There are in the background though,
disturbing variables that could interfere with our ability to compare treatment
A to the standard treatment, treatment B. Disturbing variables that could
interfere with our ability to compare the application of a new set of
pharmaceuticals to a condition and compare them to not having
those pharmaceuticals at all. And these are disturbing
variables that can cause us to conclude that there's
an effect when none is there or cover up an effect even when one is there. And in order to deal with
those disturbing variables, something called randomization is
used in the designs, so that subjects are either given treatment A or
treatment B, given alternative A or the control, and which they get is
determined by a chance mechanism. Not by an individual investigators choice,
but by some mechanism that is external to them therefore being objective rather
than internal to them, and subjective. Now, let's consider a classic example, and in their effect the first large scale
randomized trial of human subjects. It was conducted in 1954, in a field trial of the Salk
Poliomyelitis Vaccine, the polio vaccine. A polio is a virus,
it's an infectious condition. It's transmitted by what's
called the fecal-oral route. It's transmitted through
unsanitary conditions. Our particular story here has to do
with the more recent history about it when it became more prominent in
the public's thinking after World War II. People were very concerned about this. And the first vaccines that were thought
to be effective were developed by a man named Dr. Jonas Salk. But no one was sure that
the vaccine would be effective and safe in a general population. They knew that it worked in the clinical
studies that have been done. That they we're very
small than they needed, they thought a large skill fill
try to find out what had happened. The study have to be large because
the disease instances is very rare. The appearance of new cases is quiet low. A study was proposed in which one group
of children would be immunized and another group would not,
that's the comparison. That's the essence of
the scientific approach, comparing these different outcomes. The rates of polio in the two groups
would be compared and the idea would be, let's immunize one group and not another,
and then compare what happens to them. And they decided that they would do this
among first through fourth grade children. Design that was proposed was that
first and third grade children would receive the immunization and the other
second and fourth grade would not. Now, everybody would know
what would be going on, but this design was because of
that why they criticized. Because everyone who would know who was
immunized including the parents and their doctors and they would be more aware especially if it's a child had not
receive the immunization was going on. And there maybe increased attention and the rates that might be observed among
those children, might actually be different than the background rate
that they understood in studying and contrasting to what was
happening under the vaccine. So that would tend to narrow the gap and thereby not demonstrate the full
effectiveness of the vaccine. Even though the first, and second, and
third grade students came out of the same schools, one cannot be sure that
the backgrounds of the immunized and the not immunized children will be,
on average, the same. There could be differences with
respect to immunization background, with respect to exposure to the virus. And so there could be other factors here
that were going to interfering with that comparison. As a result of this concerns, a second
study was proposed to run simultaneously. So let's do it with the first,
the second, and the third grade children. We're going to immunize the first and
third grade children, and not the second grade children. We're going to compare them, but then at
the same time, let's do the following, let's get another sample of first,
second, and third grade children. And these were done through
volunteering schools and communities, it was never imposed, and then all of
those children will be given an injection. However, a randomly chosen half of
the children would get the vaccine and the others would get a placebo,
a salt water kind of solution, not having any known effectiveness and certainly not
any property that would hurt the child. But no one would know about who
got the vaccine and who did not, except the study investigators. All the children were to be followed. So those getting the vaccine, and those not getting the vaccine,
that was on the basis of a randomization. Not a choice of first and third graders
versus second graders, but among all those children, randomly deciding, objectively
deciding who would get the vaccine. Statistically, this has
valuable properties. It evens out the background variables. We don't have to worry about,
on average, the background variables. Now, as you see, the study was enormous. It involved over 1.8 million children,
and for the observed control design just to
see what was going in the background. There's a million children involved, now
they weren't directly affected by this. They didn't get the vaccine but
they weren't directly affected. But the other two parts of the study, the non-randomized study comparing first
and third graders to second graders. And the randomized comparing those first,
second, and third graders randomly assigned to the vaccine to those first,
second, and third grader randomly assign to the placebo, to the non-vaccine
where two arms of the same study. This provides of wonderful piece of
evidence about the value of randomization. Because now we can compare two different
research designs, one randomized and one not randomized to see what difference
in conclusions we might have had. Maybe there's no difference, and in that case we don't have
to worry about randomization. Randomization is controversial. How can you randomly, objectively,
with no sense of perspective assign one child a vaccine and
another not the vaccine, and then risk that other child,
possibly being afflicted with polio. While these are important moral and
ethical questions, and they still exist for experiments,
especially among human populations. Okay, so we've got what some would
characterize as not such a good research design and a very modern research
design being contrasted here. The one that involved the randomization involved what was called a double
blind randomized experiment. Nearly half a million children were
involved in this arm of the study. Parents and physicians knew that the
children had been given an injection but they didn't know whether it was
the vaccine or the placebo. They were alarmed for signs of disease but
this was equally true for vaccinated and not vaccinated groups. And at the baseline control instance
rate of that background would be actually proved to be higher than what was observed in the population because
people were in alert no matter what. But nonetheless, both groups
have the same attention paid to them because no one was sure who's
getting the vaccine and who wasn't. And so this allowed an evaluation
of the effectiveness, the difference in incidence
rates between the two. But this is a massive study first to
randomly assign subjects, in this case, children, to treatment and control. Now, after following
the study children for a year, the results were conclusive,
and in the randomized model. It was found the vaccine was safe and
effective, and the instance of polio among immunized children was less than
half of that among unimmunized. Now that's not to say that children
who receive the immunization then were completely protected. Some of them did get polio, but their
rate, their instance rate was much lower. And by all statistical measures, significantly lower than
those who received a placebo. The public health action was almost
immediate, the very next year children all across the US were being immunized as fast
as they could manufacture the vaccine. No one waited for another study,
they just went out. Manufactured the vaccine and
began to immunize children. There were shortages and sadly some children who could not get
vaccinated right away did get polio. But it's the study, and it's the facts
on public health were dramatic. Now we should understand, the non-randomized study show differences
as well, but they were very much narrower. The differences were much smaller and
they were less willing to draw the conclusion that the vaccine
was effective with that study. So randomization led to a faster, more rapid approach to an emergent
public health condition. So the randomization in
the experiment showed precisely what the nature of the effect was. It's hard enough to randomize with
human subjects in many circumstances. I picked a particularly
poignant one involving disease, a disease that could lead to paralysis,
a disease that could lead to death. So, it's very dramatic and
stalk in its contrast. But there are other conditions
in which we wouldn't even dream of randomizing because
of the practical difficulties. So let's talk about another one and
then about observational studies. This will lead us to talk about
surveys that are used to deal with, how do we determine what these differences
between those expose and not expose? Those who got the vaccine and
didn't get the vaccine? Or in our case,
those who smoked cigarettes and those who did not smoked cigarettes,
and what the differences where? Let's consider another classic study, this
one conducted by two British physicians named Doll and Hill, and
their pictures are shown here. In which they were studying the
relationship between cigarette smoking and various causes of mortality. And they did a non-randomized study
of physicians in the United Kingdom. There were around 60,000 of them, and
the registry was readily available, and the two physicians who did the study,
took that registry, and they wrote to all of them, and asked them to fill
out a questionnaire about tobacco use. So they did more than cigarette smoking,
snuff, chewing, tobacco, pipes,
cigars, and so on. They did exclude a small number
of physicians, female physicians. It was, after all, a different era. But there weren't very many
of them to begin with. So this was just strictly male
physicians in the United Kingdom who then returned the questionnaire to them. 40,000 of them returned the questionnaire,
two-thirds responded. And then what they did was they followed
them through the registration system, the death registration system
in the United Kingdom. They examined every death record over
the course of several years to find any of the 40,000 respondents who had died and
then they noted the cause of death. Well then there's no randomization now,
because what they're observing is from the questionnaire that they sent out,
did you smoke or didn't you smoke? They didn't assign them to be smokers or
non-smokers. They just observed who smoked and
who did not. And so the study physicians chose on their
own volition of whether to smoke or not. Hill done so for
a long period of time in many cases. It would have been impossible to
assign them randomly to smoker or non-smoker treatment or control groups. But still, Doll and Hill, were able in
a few short years to establish that there were much higher rates of lung cancer and
cardiovascular disease among smokers. The results were the size of these
differences were very large. They found huge differences in prevalence,
that was very striking. But no one took there study as definitive,
it was challenged on the basis of the same issue that we
were talking about for polio. How do you know that the smokers and the
non-smokers are somehow not different for other reasons with respect to lung cancer? Isn't there possibly another factor, a genetic factor that predisposes
smokers to want to smoke. And also to lung cancer, and that it's the
genetic factor that's in the background. This was one of the arguments
that was put forward, [COUGH] and so
there was controversy about this, and the large scale public health
action was lacking for a long time. As a matter of fact, it wasn't,
this study was conducted in the 1950s. It wasn't until the mid 1960s that
in the US the surgeon general, the chief medical officer
of the United States, declared a link between cigarette
smoking and lung cancer. Based on this study and a number of
other non-randomized trials, that's because the randomization was lacking they
couldn't draw a definitive conclusion. Randomization is a very powerful tool
then in the mind of the scientist. This kind of thing that Doll and Hill was considered to be a pseudo
experiment, it wasn't a true experiment. It was based on where people were
currently observed in terms of their exposure and then what the consequence,
was in terms of their cause of death. Randomization matters. It matters in science. Here, in this case, it can be a very
powerful tool for establishing effectiveness of a treatment versus a
control, or one treatment versus another. So we've seen now something about
the nature of research design, two examples of research design, and
a key part that randomization plays. And in one case randomization playing
such a key part that it leads to immediate action. In another case, it's absent and
it takes much longer to establish that a causal mechanism exists,
at least that's the history. Now it's not always the history in all
cases, but I'm using this to help fixing your minds the importance of
this odd statistical thing of objectivity randomly assigning
people to treatment and control. This is going to be important when we do
samples because what we're going to do is use the same tool, randomization to assign
people to the sample or not sample. And it's going to allow us to be able
to act immediately on that basis to say what we found in the sample
applies to the population. That's the purpose of what we're
doing with this kind of thing. But for our purposes,
let's pause at this point in our discussion about research design and
we will resume and go on in our next section to talk about
how randomization is used in survey sampling in a different way and
a different aspect of the process. As we continue our first lecture on
research design and sampling, thank you.