This course that we're talking about
that we've been putting out through just an overview lecture in one lecture. And is going to present One way of considering an important part
of research, as we mentioned already, the part about where we get the things
that we're going to measure. And as we've discussed in the overview, this kind of operation is done
in many realms of science. Many different scientific fields. It's often done quite informally as
we noted before, a physicists may draw a sample by just using materials
that are readily available to them. The phenomenon that's seen on earth and
they'll project to the phenomenon going on throughout the solar system,
or the galaxy, or the universe. We're always doing this kind of thing,
taking a sample in a particular way and the projecting it to
other kinds of things. We're often doing it by
studying relationships and associations in a particular location and
generalizing that to others. Thinking about causal mechanisms and
so on. What we're going to be doing here is
doing things that are a bit more formal with respect to the sampling process. We're going to be thinking about
this in the context of surveys, as a way of helping us
formalize these things. A particular kind of research
investigation rather than all kinds of research investigations. And in this particular context,
we're going to look at large scale data collection,
this so called survey that collects observational data about a particular set
of topics on a sample of individuals. Now surveys are used in all
kinds of scientific and non-scientific investigation. And a matter of fact, they're so
pervasive that in some countries, people complain about the being unable to
escape them, they seem to be everywhere. They are very useful and
powerful tools for finding out about how people think and
act. What happens, what kinds of things
happen as they behave in different ways? It may be collecting data about how
they think about political candidates. It may be about national government,
national and local government issues about education,
about transportation, and related issues. It could be about crying for
your prep and so on and so on. So the topics are incredibly diverse,
which makes it a very powerful tool if you're going to apply it to many
different kinds of problems like that. And then we get the results back and sometimes we get results
that are surprising to us. We're mystified. How did they get that result? It just doesn't fit with my
understanding the way the world works. So how did they do it? How they ask the questions? What process did they use? I want to talk about that process and
that may generate some questions for you as you're thinking about critically
these kinds of things that we're getting all the time in our world
about how to evaluate them. But we're going to talk about surveys and
their general framework. We're going to do that in four
steps in the upper left there. We're going to talk about
problem specification first and then talk about measurement, and
then talk about outcomes and results. So there's a problem specification,
we're going to make some measurements and then we're going to draw some
conclusion and some results. Except that we're going to add
one more thing to that a formal consideration of sampling. Sampling is seldom a very large share of
a research investigation even a survey sample in terms of budget
in terms of activity. But it can be a critical one because
it helps established the population and the relationship to the result
to that population. We're going to use this framework that's got four boxes to it to
describe the survey process. A simple representation
of the survey process. Whether it's formal or informal we need to think about all
of these boxes as we think about it. And even if people tend to deemphasize
the sample there is implicit, an assumption about what a population is. What the full set of molecules are? What the full set of chemical values are? What the full set of people happen
to be that we're interested in? But this process starts with
a specification then of a population and a problem. Generally, the problem comes first. People are interested in the problem. They can be focused on any
number of things here. But that's where people
put most of their thought. What is the issue that we're dealing with. The people who run them. The people who pay for them. The people who design them. They have a pretty good idea by
the time they are ready to go. What the topic is or
what the topics are going to be. And they also know how they are going to
make their observations in these kind of things. They will do them in such
a way that they can establish fairly immediately whether
one thing causes another. Well, they'd love that to be the case but
as we saw when we talked about science, it's hard to do unless you've got
a carefully designed experimental study. So we're doing observational
research methods. But one thing that sometimes doesn't
get addressed as much as it should is the population. What are you examining? What's the collection of subjects
that you're interested in? And there very many surveys that don't
even think about this very well. It's kind of,
as I said before implicit task. It;s not specified,
it doesn't specify the place. It does with the population resides/
It doesn't specify what the units are. Are they people? Are they events that we're looking at? And at least in some confusion then as you're trying to develop
the research investigation. There may be some limits that we
need to place on the population. We're not interested in all
the persons in the United States. We're interested in only those
who are eligible to vote. They have to be 18 years of age and older. We're interested in only
talking to females, because this is a set of issues
that only concern females. Those kinds of things need to
be thought through, as well. Just as important as
the problem specification but sometimes not as carefully attended to. Well, let's talk a little
bit about measurement. The problem of the question of interest, the most compelling thing about a survey
is what it is we're going to measure? But that often starts with a very
general notion of a construct. A general thing that we want to measure. We want to measure stress in a population. We want to measure how stressed
out this group is, but we don't have a stress meter. We have indirect measures of stress. We can measure it in
terms of blood pressure. We can measure it in
terms of eye twitching. We can measure in terms
of coffee consumption and number of hours slept, sleeplessness,
all sorts of things that can be done. Those kinds of measures are what
we're going to be using but we have to have the underlying
construct first specified. We may be interested in what
people think about a new product. Well, we have to have that
product available and then what aspects of it do
we want them to think about. These are all measurement kinds of issues. What you decide to measure, sometimes it's
fairly easy, it's a direct observation. Other times, it's much more complex
because we can't make direct observations. But nonetheless in that process, we're
going to design some kind of instrument or use some kind of instrument. May be our survey involves height and
weight and overweight and so we have a scale and
a measuring device to measure height. And we can apply those fairly easily
borrowing an instrument from somewhere. Other case we have to design in this
group like a questioner that allows us to obtain this data, this observational
data through an interview process. But even when we've designed that
instrument, we have to specify procedures. Are we going to make sure that that
scale is placed on a level surface that is uncarpeted,
that has a certain rigidity to it? We measure it only certain time of day and
certain temperatures because it could be a little bit longer or a little bit
shorter depending on those circumstances. We have to think about the process
that we're going to use to apply the instrumentation as well. And then finally,
if we're going to do some measurement, we may need to hire staff to do this. It may not be possible for
us to have self measurement, self reports. The kind of thing that people fill out an
instrument online in an internet survey. We may need staff to implement this and we're going to have to train
them to do that implementation. Through all that process then when we've
got that measurement all worked out, and what the instrumentation is, and how we're
going to implement the data collection, and what staff are going to do it,
and they're all trained and ready to go, then we collect data. And that's the last box,
that we collect, we process, we analyze. And most people think about this
as the heart of the survey, and I suppose in many ways it is. But the prior step, the measurement is
extremely important in order to obtain reliable valid data for us to be able to
draw firm conclusions about a population. Okay, that's the whole process but
I skipped something didn't I? I didn't talk about representation but
that's the focus of our course. And that representation side is the one
we're dealing with, the sample. And in that process there, we have to think about how we're going
to go about doing the sample selection. This is a bit like specifying procedures. How are we going to figure
out what sampling technique we're going to use in and how to apply it? In some ways,
that depends on knowing the frame. Their effect many of the sampling
techniques that we looked at were derived to deal particular frame problems that
is the set of materials that we use. Let me define that I used
that term without defining. A frame is that, it's a set of materials
we used to- Select the sample. It could be a simple list. It could be a list of people
who are in the population. It may be that that list is
a little bit out of date. So maybe we've got a list of people who
are employees of an organization, and it was obtained from
the personnel department, but they've Not kept it up to date fully. They didn't get the latest hires. The new hirings. And there were a couple people who died. Big organizations, some people died and
they're no longer eligible. There could be a discrepancy
between that list and the actual population at
the time we're doing it. That's very important to doing this. It assumes that we have a way of taking
a list and then drawing a sample from it. That's in opposition to a scheme in
which we say, all I need here to do, is to recruit subjects. I don't care where we get them. I don't care where we get the individuals
we're going to interview. I don't care where we get the chemical. Product that we're going to use. I don't care where we get the sample
of water that we're going to examine. I don't care where we get the sample
of air that we're going to compare. For us its randomly mixed but in the human context that's hard
to make that kind of thing. Recruiting a sample that
way is sometimes dangerous, we can end up with groups that are quiet
peculiar that we drawn our sample from. We're talking about the sampling
operation where there's a list, we sample from it and we follow
that sample, that's what we pursue. And we think about a list and a scheme for slumping from it at random that
is suitable for that at least. And then we select our sample. Then we go through and choose the particular individuals that are
going to feed into that data collection. We're not just leaving it up to a field
staff, to a trained staff to do. We're telling them precise steps that
they need to follow through on and specific kinds of things
that they need to do in order to execute the data collection
on the representation site. All right, that's the kind of
thing that we're examining here. We're talking about that sampling
process and how it ought to be done. We're going to stick to the more
formal mechanisms for doing this. It's not to say that we
shouldn't do the others. I do them, I design them. But I want to do the more formal
mechanisms because when we understand those, Then it makes it easier for us to evaluate what's done
when we don't follow them. And that is an extremely
valuable perspective. So I think about this more as a strategy. Let's cut it down, get it down to
the point where we really understand how to do sampling in a formal way. And then we can depart from that. On the basis of convenience, on the basis
of cost, on the basis of other phenomena. That's the way the survey process fits and
how sampling fits into it. We've already talked about surveys and
survey sampling and how they fit into research investigations. Now how sampling fits into surveys. Let's turn now to why sample at all? What is the need for this? And we're going to talk there about
censuses and contrast those with samples. But that'll be our third
lecture in our series here on sampling as a research tool. Thank you.