All this stuff about sampling. It would be a whole lot easier if we
could just collect our observations and our survey without having to worry about
much besides getting enough subjects to have a large enough sample to be able to
say reliable things about the population. If it were only so easy. Welcome back. I'm continuing on our discussion about
sampling people, records, and networks. And in doing sort of a reflection on what would be nice about samples if
we could just take anybody. And just get enough observations
to draw our conclusions. Yet what we're going to do is
a bit more formal than just that. It's going to have the same object,
but it's more formal in this process. They're just aspects of the process
that lead us into more and more complexity as we do it. And that's unfortunate, and yet I think it's a consequence of thinking
carefully about these kinds of things. In this lecture, we're going to cover
a couple of diverse topics that can again provide context for what we'll see
later about specific sampling methods. So, we're going to talk about surveys and
sampling in this lecture, but I just wanted to highlight something. If you look ahead to the lectures three, four, five, six, seven,
those next lectures, there are five questions that we're going to
address once we have this background. We're going to talk about,
why sample at all? Maybe it's not necessary to do a sample. Maybe we can just do something completely different in terms
of drawing our conclusions. Secondly, if we're going to do a sample,
why do we need to randomize it, and how do we do it, if we're
going to be forced into doing it or if we think it's necessary to do it? Thirdly, what happens when we randomize? What happens to our ability to draw
conclusions about the population? And so, we're going to look into what
the consequences of randomization are. Fourthly, how do we evaluate the result,
how good it is? And what role can
randomization play in that? And then, our fifth and
final question in Lecture 7, what kinds of things can we sample? And that will be fairly brief. It's going to be people,
records and networks. So, here though, we're going to
concentrate on why sample at all. And in order to do that,
let's look in this lecture at a set of topics here that
I've got outlined in the back. We're going to talk a little
bit about a census or a sample. A little bit about accuracy. What we mean by accuracy here? We're going to talk up a little bit about
probabilities and something called frames. We're going to address techniques,
the processes that we're going to use. And then, a little bit about some
deficiencies that happen when we attempt to apply those techniques. And then we'll mention, briefly,
things about complex design. So, that's what we're
going to be addressing here. These are kind of scattered, but related
topics that are foundational background to understanding what we're going to
be doing as we go ahead with this. Okay, so let's look at this first
one about a census or a sample. So, many times in a textbook, you'll see this kind of thing where as
the drawing in the lower right shows, there's a population of a large,
diverse group of people, many colors. And from that population,
a sample is drawn. And we want that sample to be
miniature of that population. That's kind of one perspective on it. That's a classical perspective
that comes about from 19th century studies of the human
condition in northwest Europe. I want to make sure that my approach
leads to good accurate conclusions about the population. I want to be able to tell people, what
is the condition of the people living in London, in this neighborhood in London,
at this time with respect to sanitation or with respect to crime, with respect
to working environments and so on. I just want to make sure that I've
got good accurate conclusions that I can draw on. And one way I can do that is
to just do the whole thing. Draw a sample and take all. So there's a relevant population
that were interested in. And then, we're going to be
drawing a sample from these and thinking about how good are the outcomes
that I've got, based on this sample. Okay, census involves the competed
enumeration of population when the population is large,
that's a very costly thing to do and very time consuming. Censuses are not done routinely for
most of these subject matter. For example,
almost every country in the world, I think every country in the world
today at least aspires to doing a census of the population, but those
censuses are done only every five years, or only ever ten years, because
it's such an expensive undertaking. And a limited number of variables,
remember, in the most recent
census of population for the US, there were just a limited set of
questions and they advertised it that way. You only have to answer ten questions. There's nothing more that
you have to do to try and reduce burden and
encourage participation in response. The problems that are run into, with respect to the census,
is the timing on it is a problem. They're only done every ten years. The census in the US is done In years
ending in zero, every ten years. Going back to 1790,
the first in the census of population. And that means the data
get rapidly out of date. There are some problems with
non-response that occur. The US census is at first a process of self administrative forms being mailed
out to people through the postal service. And then people are supposed to fill
out those forms and return them. But about 25% of the US population alone, more than that,
doesn't return those forms. And then, there's a sequential process
in which individuals go door by door to those households that have not returned
the forms, in order to collect the data. So, it's a complex undertaking because
it's so large and vast in its operation. The cost per completed unit and
the total cost are a little misleading. It may not cost very much per person
to do a census, but when you've got a large population of hundreds of
millions of people, the total cost can be something that only could be attempted
periodically by a government system. And so, it's not feasible to
do censuses all the time. In between censuses,
people can do samples. They're going to get snapshots and try and get as good a representation of
that population as possible. So the census and
the sample working together. Generally, the census represents
what the sample aspires to be measuring everybody and
getting a good accurate picture of that. But the sample is more cost effective and
timely and can be done more often, and filling the gaps in terms of time,
filling the gaps in terms of population, filling the gaps in terms of
variables that are being measured. The census can only do
a limited number at a time. [SOUND] So, the sample is far less costly
and far less time-consuming to conduct. It's only dealing with a subset of the
population, but we want to make that that sample somehow represents the population,
a miniature of it as I've said before. And if we can't do the whole and thereby get perfection,
we're going to have some error. We'd love to have it so there's no error, but there's going to be some error because
we only have a subset of the individuals. How large is that error? And just what can we do with it? Now actually we think that
in the case of samples, we can get more accurate
results than with the census. Because we can concentrate on a more
limited set of subjects in getting higher quality information for each of
those subjects, those in the sample, than we can with a census, where we've gotta
spread our resources across vast numbers. So, we can actually get more accurate
results with the sample than we can with a census. But maybe we ought to talk a little
bit about what that means. And we'll do that when we talk
about accuracy in a second. Before we get there, though, [COUGH] let's
talk about how samples get selected. Now, we can do recruitment directly. By that we're just going to go out and assemble a set of volunteers
to participate in our studies. It's more of a recruitment
activity than a sampling. The idea is that we're going to
find people willing to participate. There's no issue about a list and
a sample selection. That's the kind of selection
technique that's used more in more formal government
in academic service. But we can just recruit a group
of people and assemble them and collect data from them. So, the idea of using volunteers for
the sample, people who are self-motivated, they're the ones who initiate
the decision to participate. It's not that we approach them. In contrast to the mechanisms that we have
that we'll talk about the middle one here, in which we actually have a list
of the elements in the population. We select the ones that
we want from that list. Now we're going to do that using
randomization in what we're talking about, but that selection is something
that's instituted by the scientist, the statistician researchers,
and then we go to recruitment. We only recruit among the sample,
the selected group. And so, there's a interjection
of another aspect to this. A list and a selection rather
than just going to recruiting. But there's a consequence of that. And we'll talk a little bit
about this in this course. And that is, we may have that list,
we may have the selection. And then, we may do our recruitment,
but there are some who are not going to participate,
we're going to have non-response. And that is a deficiency that creates the
necessity of a set of assumptions about what we're doing that isn't there when we
just consider the pure list selection and recruitment kind of an approach. So for our purposes,
I'll talk a little bit about recruitment, of recruiting these things directly,
volunteer samples, but mostly we're going to
talk about having lists or some way of assembling lists,
artificially assembling a list, and making selections, and
then doing the recruitment. And we'll add on a few things about
that response as we go along. But because we do samples, they may cost us less because it's smaller
numbers that we're going to be doing, but they also can lead to better data because
we may have more resources to devote to better measurement and
even better coverage in response. There's always the ever present concern
for the fact that we have a sample and not a census. And so, we can be wrong in
our sample result because there are four possible
outcomes that might arise. And the bullseye image that you see here, this is sometimes referred to in
the survey realm as the total survey error perspective, and you've probably
seen this in the earlier courses in our specialization help us
to understand this more fully. Now, I'll comeback and talk about accuracy
a little bit more in the context of what we're doing, but I just wanted you to
understand that when we do samples, we're not claiming that we get
perfectly accurate results, mainly because we know we got a sample,
but not the full population involved. We've mentioned that the samples can
involve probability selection or no probability sampling. We've mentioned the kind of volunteer
recruitment to get a sample, sometimes for more convenient
sources than we may use otherwise. But there are lots of ways that sample
can be drawn that don't involve chance selection. Matter of fact,
even in the social sciences and the studies that are done,
randomization is not the norm. The norm is non-randomized studies,
non-randomized selection. [COUGH] For example, the sample may be selected
through expert choice or judgment. We rely on the expert to determine
who falls into the sample. We have systems in which we can fill
quotas based on interviewer judgment. We get down to the point where
an interviewer is told that, look, you need to get 10 interviews
from this neighborhood, from this voting precinct,
from this voting district. And we want half of the interviews
that you do to be female. We want two of those interviews to be
done with people under the age of 30. And we want four interviews to be done
with people of this particular background. That kind of thing though is in
contrast to the non-response and substitution that is sometimes done. So, we may actually get a list to
make a careful sample selection. And then, when we go out into the field,
we allow for the possibility that there be non-response and we allow the interviewer
to substitute another unit or someone else to substitute for
a carefully chosen unit. So, there are three forms of
non-probability sampling that I mentioned there. There are expert choice or judgement. Filling quotas by interviewers or
others, and then [COUGH] substitution. There are also such
things as online panels. These are very widely used, increasingly widely used today in studies
of political opinion and attitudes. And they basically recruit the sample in
advance, recruit a panel of individuals that you can draw a sample for
a particular problem from. Now they're going to participate
on the basis of their voluntary decision to be a member of the panel, in contrast to river samples that draw
the sample continuously, as needed. Rather than having a panel already
assembled and then draw a sample from it, for a particular client or
for a particular application. We're going to do this through some kind
of a flow process that's drawing people through mechanisms on the web or through
other kinds of recruiting mechanisms. All sorts of things there are
non-probability sampling, very inventive kinds of things, but they're beyond the
scope of this course for us to deal with. What we're going to deal with is in
the lower right hand corner there. The image of the lottery,
choosing something at random. Something that comes up as in a lottery, a set of numbers that have some payoff for
us. But here we're going to use that
randomized selection probability sampling. And here there are a range of
techniques on the probability side that we're going to be dealing with. And these involve as I mentioned
randomization only design, simple random selection,
that we'll do in our next unit. Stratified selection, the idea of grouping
and then getting greater efficiency in our operation by drawing selections
from each of the groups. Grouping and choosing the groups
themselves, this I'll call cluster samples, which are designed to improve
the efficiency by reducing our costs. So they can reduce costs substantially. There are also accounting methods,
like systematic selection, that make the selection process much
easier to do and it could be done by clerical trained individuals,
rather than highly trained professionals. And then more complex techniques
that involve probabilities that deal with particular real world problems
in drawing these samples, but using again probabilities
in the selection process. So, different realms of operation. One, mainly recruiting,
focusing on recruiting a sample and non-probability techniques
that fall under that. And the other that have techniques
that involve probability methods, and techniques such as outlined here. Well, let's take a little break here and
then come back to Lesson 3 about why we sample at all,
to wrap up this particular lecture. Thank you.