We're resuming our lecture three
on sampling people, records and networks in unit one on just
sampling as a research too. And we're going to be in
this particular case, picking up where we left off in
our first part of the lecture. You recall that we were talking there
about censuses versus samples and how samples can be valuable and
then whether or not we use randomization probabilities,
or not. What techniques go with those
different kinds of probability and probability samples, and then we want to
continue on with a couple of additional topics, and that's where we are now. We're now going to turn
to looking at frames. Frames is one of those transcending generic terms that refers to the set of
materials we use for selecting the sample. Now usually, we think about that in
terms of a set of materials that are assembled all in one place,
a simple, single list. And so our techniques that
we've been talking about, many of them can be applied
directly to those kinds of lists. Simple random sampling and stratified
sampling and systematic sampling, but there are also situations in which
we have not a simple list frame, but more complex frames. Frames that we have to assemble,
because we don't have that list and we need to assemble our sample by
doing it in stages step by step, so that we can reduce the costs of a hugely
expensive operation building a list. We want to be able to use existing
materials and not invent new materials for what we're doing. So area frames are an example where
we may draw a sample of persons in a country by first not sampling,
attempting to create a list of all the persons
which we don't currently have. But by first assembling on this
the geographic areas where they live, all the geography in our country. So, maybe it's all
the districts in the country. Maybe it's all the enumeration
areas in the country. Enumeration area is being
a senses type unit and we attempt to draw sample not attempt,
we draw sample of those areas first, because we're going to
link people to them. But then when we go there to those areas, we discover that still
a lot of people there. Be a lot of time and
money to create a list of the people and then we're only going to
use a subset of them. So, we might subdivide it further. We might take the district and
divide it into blocks or enumeration areas, or some smaller
subunit and then draw a sample of those. And so, we start with a list first of
districts and then within the selected districts list of sub-districts within
them and we sample those sub-districts. And now we're done to a list of sample
sub-districts and we go to those, and then we recognize we can go, and
obtain a list of households. We still don't want to list all
the people, because too many, we're only going to take a small share. We don't want a list more than we have to. So, we list the housing in it and
draw a sample of those. Now, we go to the sample housing
units in our fourth stage and now we list the people. That area, area, areaor housing unit
person, that kind of an area frame. Lot of different lists being assembled
there, some of them being assembled for the first time, our own listing operation. These kinds of things can create
problems in our ability to match up our frame to our population. Even in the simple list case, we may
have cases where there are elements in the population that
are not in the lists and things that are on the lists that
are not in the population, and so on. Those kinds of problems can be dealt with
as we think about the particular frame that we have. And so there are remedies that people have
for addressing these kinds of problems and making sure that we get the best possible
match between population, and frame between population, and the list or set of
materials we have to select our sample. To those frames we apply, the techniques
of we've already mentioning. So, we mention simple random sampling and
systematic sampling. But here in this techniques, there's a particular recommended set
of ways of caring out of the selection. There's several ways to do the same thing. There's several ways to do
simple random sampling, we'll look at some of that as we go along. But these are particular techniques, particular forms that
are followed in the selection. Sort of like when I was in high school and
on the track team and throwing the discuss, there was a form. I was terrible at it. I was not a good discus thrower. But nonetheless, there was a technique, a particular approach steps that were
involved and that's what we'll look at as we look at the sampling techniques
that we're going to be examining. There are techniques that are used that
are applied to lists, to list streams and then there are techniques
applied to cluster situations, to area samples and those kinds of things,
to multistage samples. And so, the techniques are somewhat
different in each case. Regardless of the techniques and
the frames that they're applied to, there are going to be
deficiencies in our samples. For example, I've already mentioned
some of these like nonresponse. We've drawn a sample very
carefully from a list. We've assembled that sample and we're out
recruiting individuals in that sample to participate in the study and
some of them don't provide data, because they don't want to provide
the data or we can't locate them or there is a language issue or
all sorts of things that can happen. Sometimes, it's they don't provide
us with information at all. In other cases,
they provide us with some information. But for some items,
they don't provide the information. They don't want to tell us their income. They don't know the answer
to a particular question. So there's missing in the data,
nonresponse. That's the sort of breaking the link here. We got such a nice
carefully selected sample. And yet, now we're losing some
of the individuals that we've so carefully assembled. There's also some problems
with respect to coverage. One of the framed problems that I really
didn't highlight is the fact that there is this discrepancy sometimes between
the frame and the population. The frame doesn't cover all
the elements in the population. Now that may be because of
a deficiency in the frame, it may also be because of
a deliberate choice we've made. We decided not to cover population in
a remote portion of a country, because it's very expensive to get there and
the size of the population's fairly small. It's not that we're not interested
in them, but excluding them. Saves us bundles of money and
it makes very little difference in the final conclusions
that we're doing overall. Both nonresponse and noncoverage,there's
compensation to try in bring that break in our link back together a little bit and there's something called weighting
that's use to this kinds of things. Now weighting is use to compensate for
unequal probabilities selection, but sometimes it's also use to just for
non response and noncoverage technique called
poststratification in which we attempt to make the sample look like some outside
control information for our population. But nonetheless, we're attempting to
address these deficiencies post hoc. But then we also have to
consider one more factor here and that is complex designs, but there a lot
of things that we could put together now as you can see whether randomization,
clustering, stratification. There are various kind of
estimation procedures. There are a weights that could be
considered and involve in this process. All of this are departures from
the simple, simple randomization, simple random sampling is a base
as the starting point, but there are all these departures
that we introduce to save money, to make our designs more efficient,
to correct various kinds of deficiencies. And when we introduce these features
that are not just randomization into the process, the estimates that we have
to compute become more and more complex. A simple mean or a simple proportion
becomes much more difficult to compute, because of the complexity that goes on. That complexity is reflected
as well in the kind of measure that we're going to talk about that are
used to assess the quality of our results. There'll be something that we call
standard airs or conference intervals so we'll talk about that. And in those kinds of estimates for
our results, being able to compute those for more and more complex
designs that involve clusters and stratification, and weight,and other
factors, it becomes a complex task. We need software beyond the standard
software that can handle these complex design features correctly. And so, it's necessary for us to talk
a little bit about variance estimation. We'll do that in the last
unit very briefly. We'll talk about some of the different
ways that quality of our data can be assessed. Taking into account this complexity and
some of the software that's available to do this kind of thing,
that makes it opaque. You don't even have to worry about this
kind of thing, because the software provided you give it the right kind of
information handles all of these things. And what we'll see is that
as we change the technique, we change how we compute our estimates. That as we move from a simple
random sample to a cluster sample, we're going to change how
we compute our estimates. And as we do that,
we need to keep the design married to, connected to the estimation procedures and
the software will help us do that. It turns out that this complexity follows
the randomization and there are many ways that we can randomly select samples
that we're talking about it. And so, we're going to need to keep track
on how we selected the sample in order to make our estimates as sound as possible. In our next lecture, what we're going to do is turn to
the second of our five questions. Where I asked the question about why might
we randomize and how should we do it? And so we're going to look at random
numbers, what they're like and how they are used in selection. We won't worry about technique
as much as about the implication of using random selection and
getting our sample, and we'll look at the consequences of
randomization in lecture four. Hope to see you there. Thank you.