Hello, and
welcome to the last of our lectures in unit one of our course on sampling
people, records, and networks. We want to make this
a little more concrete. To just talk about how the kinds of
ideas we've been talking about can be applied to those three areas,
people, records, and networks. And we've examined a variety of
background about how sampling fits into research investigations. How it fits into surveys and
how it operates. Let's just talk a little about application
now to, well, almost anything. What we want to explore in this lecture, the last in Unit I,
is some ways that we can do. Or some frames, I guess,
some populations and frames. I'm going to maybe confuse a little bit
by using the term units or elements. Because when we talk about people, it's
pretty clear what the unit is, people. When we talk about records, it could be a
transaction, it could be a billing record, it could be a variety of things. And when we talk about networks,
it could be a number of things, too. And we might sample different
things at different times, and the generic term that's
used in sampling is unit. I'm sorry we're mixing that
up with the units here, but the idea of a sampling unit. We want to distinguish that just
a little bit as we move ahead here. We're going to do this in three sets,
just people, records, and networks. Again, example of each. And one of them, we've already seen. So let's just talk about these things
to make sure we understand how these samples could be
applied in each case. So, we started out talking
about sampling people. And here's that list again that we did
where it involved the faculty members of the University at Michigan and
their salaries. And the list that we have, the frame
that we had, had 370 elements on it. We're only seeing the first 25 here. The data are organized in terms of just
the subset of the many things that we might know or want to know about them. We have a sequence number for
each from one to 370, just the numbering we have
done to the list of the frame. And an ID, an eight digit ID that
was assigned by their employer. Their division,
that is college, or school, or major area of study, sex,
and rank, and salary. And what we did was we applied a table
of random numbers to those, right? We got random digits, and remember we
had the 579, didn't fit the list and the 341 that and
the 019 that did, and so on. And that lead to a sample,
a random sample from our population list. Along with a set of values on the incomes
that we measured for each one. I know it was on the list, but we'll
just sort of pretend it wasn't there and we collected it and we got a mean. And then we talked about how that mean
came from one of many possible samples that could have been drawn
of size 20 from a 370. The sampling distribution and then how we could use from that sampling
distribution notions of variability. To calculate a measure of the variability
across all possible samples just from this one sample. And then make an uncertainty statement. Okay, that's kind of what
we've been doing in this unit. Just getting used to these ideas and
working our way through them and trying to understand them. But we can apply this same logic
to other kinds of populations. And here are records. These are hypothetical. This isn't actually, it's taken from my
records, but I've mixed things up here. Credit card transactions
where there's a date given. There is a sequence number in
the first column, a date given, a time of the transaction. A reference number, that's like the ID except there
that's got a lot of digits in it. The category, we would know some background information
about this in the subcategory. So there might have been a purchase
that involved business services, advertising services,
that appeared on the credit card. It wasn't a business. It was a personal credit card, so
there's no particular indicator there, some additional information about
the transaction, and the amount. That's our background record. Now, why would we want to sample these? Why wouldn't we just
work with all of them? Because we may want to go in and
do more detailed work on the transaction. To collect data that would be very
difficult to link to these particular records and only do it on a sample. Or we might use some expert opinion to
assign categories and codes to this. Depending on the information then
that takes more time and expense. We can only do it on a sample. But again, random sampling, we would use
the same kinds of random numbers to make selections of these transactions. We would think about the data
collection and obtaining values and computing a mean or a proportion or
maybe a regression coefficient. But, just different kinds of sampling but now the object is not necessarily
a person but a transaction and event. So we can apply our methods to things
other than people, such as records. These methods can also be applied
to things that are a little more hypothetical. Networks, this is a kind of network
sampling that is illustrated here that has been used sometimes
in the social sciences. Suppose that what we've done
is draw a sample of people. And then when we go to talk to them,
we've drawn them at random. And we go to talk to them and we say,
we want to ask you two kinds of questions. The first kind of question is,
who are your siblings? Now we're thinking of those
siblings as a network. A network of individuals related by
blood or legal adoption, for example. So, how many siblings do you have? And you can see the first
sample person here, if you can see these records clearly,
there are ten. And that first sample person
has no living siblings. They might have passed on, it may be
that they were an only child, but they have none. Okay, and then the second
person has two living siblings. Now, the first person is
a network of size one. The second person now, in our conception,
is a network of size three. The next person has three living siblings,
that's a network of size four. All right, that’s one set of data
we’re collecting about the network and its characteristics. It’s important to understand this
because it’s going to have an effect on estimation, something we’ll
talk about in our last unit. The third column of data there,
I know these are off centered. But it says, ever been told by a doctor,
an MD, medical doctor, if you have diabetes? Have you ever been told that? And of the ten people to
have been told this, and then the next question over says,
okay, about your siblings. Have any of your siblings ever been
told by a medical doctor that they have diabetes? And this is the number of
those siblings that have. Now, there's a big assumption here,
right, about the measurement process. Can someone report accurately about
their siblings on something like this? Let's just assume, we'll set the
measurement issue aside from this course. That's one that's being
dealt with in other courses. But nonetheless, we're collecting
data about not only the individual. But elements in the network
from that individual. We could go to the other elements in
the network and collect the data as well. And expand our operations so that our sampling starts
with one node in a network. And then expands it to the other
elements in the network. This particular kind of result here is refered to in the sampling literature
as a multiplicity sampling. There are multiple chances of
an element being selected. That person who has three living siblings,
they have four ways of being chosen. They could have been chosen, they were, or any one of their three siblings
could have been chosen. And we need to take that into account
before we can do proper estimation back to the population. The basis for that is still the probabilities
that we've been dealing with. We're going to have to think about the
probabilities in more challenging ways. Because this kind of
sampling is more complex. Well, that's where we're going. The kinds of applications
that we're going to do. What we're going to do next is turn to
what I'm labelling m ere randomization. Now the word mere isn't used
in this context very often. The actual term for what we're going to talk about technically
is called simple random sampling. But is a kind of sampling that only
uses randomization in its selection. And I say only,
why would you use anything else? Well, turns out that we will use other
information in unit three dealing with, as we mentioned before in the overview. Things that have to do with cost and
we're going to try and reduce our cost by using
other pieces of information. We may be able to make
our results more precise, narrow our diameters on our spread by
considering auxiliary information. But here, we're only going to consider randomization
as the only feature of the selection. Not anything having to do with cost or
with auxiliary data. What can we do with that and
what are the consequences of it? And so mere randomization,
only randomization is the issue here. The type that we're going to deal
with is simple random sampling. It's not the only kind of mere
randomized study that can done, but the one that we're going to talk about. And that's what we'll turn to unit two
as we move ahead with our lectures. Thank you.