Welcome, once again to our Coursera course on sampling methods in the context
of data collection and analysis. In this unit, we're starting a new unit, we're going to talk about
randomization as a sampling technique. What I'm calling near randomization,
only randomization. We're just going to look at this as the
primary selection device in our process. There is only one way an element
in the frame, called our frames, can get into the sample, and
that's by individual random selection. It is typical to call this kind of thing
simple rather than mere random sampling. Simple referring to just a randomization. But I hesitate to use the term, even
though it's more commonly used because this is less simple than
it might first appear. There's a part of simple random
sampling that depends on a choice of duplicating elements in the sample
that bothers statisticians because of the finite bases the population. And it's that application of mere
randomization to finite population that will cause us some problems. But that goes beyond where we are for
right now. So let's introduce SRS, as this is
sometimes called, simple random sampling. And we're going to talk a little bit
about frames and random variables. We're going to talk a little bit about
selecting a sample and some definitions. And then the practical use of simple
random samples as we go along. You recall that we've already
done a sample random sample. We had a rather large
table of random numbers, when we were talking about randomization,
and what random numbers look like. Well, here's that table of random numbers. I know it's impossible to read, but you can maybe pull this out,
zoom it in and look at the properties. All of these numbers, in this case, 4,500 numbers that could
be used to draw our sample. And then we apply this set of
random numbers to our frame. Our frame that consists of
persons who happen to be faculty. So we're sampling persons who are faculty,
professors, associate professors, assistant professors at a university. And we see that there's a little different
layout than before, because we can see their sequence number, and an ID that
is somewhat sequential, but with gaps. And a little bit of other information,
auxiliary data. Auxiliary data about their rank, about their division where they
happen to be appointed, their sex. But we're going to
ignore that information. We're just going to treat this
as a list of individuals and apply our random selection techniques
to that list of individuals. The frame has more elements than can fit
on one sheet, so here's another sheet. There's at least 300 of them
in this particular frame. As a matter of fact, there's a total
of 370 elements, that's our capital N, our population size,
as far as we're concerned. There could be more faculty, but
we're just limiting it to these 370. And here was the simple random
sample that we did in our last unit. We didn't call it that,
but here is what we did. So let's sort of review the steps. We identified random numbers
from the list that we could then link up to the ID numbers, or
the sequence numbers for the subjects. So we were looking for
random numbers that went from 001 to 370, and we're looking for in our case from
that final population of 370 elements, 20 such numbers that were distinct,
different. And we're using random
numbers from a table and matching them up to unique numbers
assigned to each frame element. And for each selection after the first,
we went back and checked to be sure. Well, maybe we didn't do this formally, we
probably did it informally and very fast. We checked to make sure that when
we had selected the next unit, it wasn't one that had
already been chosen. Because if it was, we went back and
rejected that most recent selection, which was a duplicate of one
that was already there, and then generated another random number,
and made another selection. That is we made sure
that we had 20 distinct, 20 different elements from the population,
our sample. And we just continued that process,
again and again doing the draws, until we got to our sample
size of lowercase n. 20 distinct frame elements selected. So this we labeled without
replacement selection. A unique sample of elements. With that kind of an approach,
where we don't allow duplication, you can see the little key there
that says don't duplicate. Every element of the population has
the same probability of selection. Now we're going to use a term here
throughout the course to refer to that process and call it epsem, E-P-S-E-M. You see that highlighted in red. It's an abbreviation. An abbreviation for equal, E for equal, probability, P for
probability, S-E for selection, method, m for method. Equal probability selection method. Every element in the population has
the same chance of getting into the sample as any other. And further,
every combination of size lowercase n 20, in our particular case,
has the same probability of selection, the groups themselves, all those unique
sets of 20 different elements, and there are lots of them,
have the same chance of selection. All right, that's what we did before. That was our simple
random sampling process. There's other ways to do this and get a simple random sample
in the end the same way. So again, we're interested in a sample
of size lower case n from capital N, 20 from 370. And here's what we're going to do. We're going to change the process. We're going to get our random numbers now,
and we're going to take random numbers and they could be three digit,
four digit, five digit numbers, and we're going to go through and
we're going to get those random numbers. And we're going to assign them one by
one to every one of the 370 elements in the list. That is, we're going to assign a different
random number to every element. And then what we're going to
do is take that list now, that now has not only the sequence
number and the ID number, but now has this random number
assigned to every case. And we're going to sort
the list by the random number. We're going to take it and go from
the smallest random number assigned to the large random number assigned. And then our sample operation
is to take the first lowercase n elements in that sorted list. Because they're randomly ordered,
I could take the first 20. I could take the second set of 20. I could take the last 20. I could take every tenth
one until I get to my 20. It doesn't matter,
because they're in random order. This process, if repeated again and again, will yield a simple
random sample in the same way. It's without replacement. No element's going to get selected more
than once because we're just taking the 20 elements from
the beginning of the list. It also turns out to be equal
probability selection method. That's E-P-S-E-M, epsem. Now it would be a little hard
to do this for 370 cases, to go through and
grab random numbers off that table. So instead, what we might do is do it
through a process of using the numbers, generating numbers through
a machine process. Some kind of a black box
mechanism that does that, some kind of a key that's
generating numbers. I don't know it you ever had
one of these for secure login, where it's always showing
a new number there. And when it comes time to enter in,
in order to log in, a certain six digit sequence,
you gotta look at that key and then enter those six digits
in exactly as they appear. And then you enter in. Randomly generated in that way. Well, we can do that through
our selection mechanisms, and I show a formula here,
a piece of machine code. And I'm going to expand this just to
say that we could generate those random numbers for each case by machine much
more quickly than we can do it by hand. If we had a way to tell
the software system, here's how you generate these things. And so, here's a way to
generate these random numbers. We could use a function inside
each of our pieces of software, our statistical software,
called a random number generator. There are a number of different
ones that we've mentioned before. We would use the uniform
random number generator, and we would tell it, look,
we want uniform random numbers. We want random numbers that are between
0 and 1, we want a sequence of them. And we want you to give us the next number
in the sequence when you see this for this case. And we want to make sure that you start at
a certain beach in a column in a row and be put in a seed, so
you see the URAN and then (0718. The 0718 is the seed,
it's the starting point. Start of page 7 and column 18, and just start generating
the numbers from that point. And then as you're generating those
random numbers, between 0 and 1, multiply it by 500. Now what that's going to do is take
the numbers between 0 and 1 and expand them to a set of
numbers from 0 up to 500. But they're going to
have decimals in them, because those random numbers from 0 to 1
have got a lot of decimals in them anyway. And so
[COUGH] It's going to expand the numbers from 0.00000 to 499.9999. And we don't need the decimals. So we're going to apply to a function,
truncate the decimals, chop them off. And then we've now got a random
number that is between 0 and 499. Not 500, because 500 wouldn't actually
get generated in this process. But 0 to 499, we don't want 0 to 499,
we want 1 to 500, so we're going to add 1 to it,
and that's our random number. That's a random number
generating mechanism. But it's built around the idea of
the uniform random number generator. That's the key, that URAN function
is what we're going to use to assign a random number to every case and
it'll be just a random number from 0 to 1, I don't care whether it's from 1 to 500. We just care that it's from 0 to 1 and
that's what we use in the sorting. Okay, so that's another way
to do simple random sampling. There's another way. Now these are all different processes,
procedures, but they yield the same result. They yield a set of samples that
we would label simple random. Here we're going to do a sample of size
lower case n from capital N again, 20 from our 370. We're going to use random
numbers from a table. And we're going to match them to
the unique numbers assigned to each case. And we're going to review the process
until we have m frame elements selected, 20 frame elements selected. We're going to check for
duplicates in the sample. So we've got a sample of 20, we've got
them all generated, and we look to see, and lo and behold, of the 20 cases,
2 of them are the same. Well, reject the whole list. Reject that sample and
draw another of size 20. We keep doing that until we get a set
of 20 that are unique, distinct. This is a very expensive process. We wouldn't do this by hand. We'd let a machine do it. We're going to generate samples
that allow duplication. But when we get duplication,
we reject the sample. We only keep the sample if it
doesn't have duplicates in it. This gives us, in the end, a without
replacement sample that is epsem, and is simple random. As a matter of fact, what we're doing
is using a broader class of samples, the unrestricted random samples, the ones
that include the duplicates in it. And then filtering out
the ones that have duplicates, filtering those out of the system and
only retaining the ones that don't. We're comparing a restricted or simple
random sample versus an unrestricted. And hence a symbol in the lower left,
actually this is the symbol sometimes you see on the highway with
the multiple stripes through it, which says all restrictions removed. Unrestricted random samples, and we find those that have
the restrictions we're interested in. This is not an uncommon sampling
technique, but again, what happens that we do is we've seen three different
ways to draw these samples. The direct approach we did first, where
we deliberately searched for duplicates. The approach where we sorted the list. This approach where we sort the samples, we select out the samples that
have the right properties. There are lots of possible techniques. But all of them lead to the same set
of possible samples that we could have. And it turns out that any procedure that
yields a fixed sample size n and for which every element of the population
has the same probability of selection. And every combination of size lower case
n has the same probability selection, that's a simple random sample. That's the formal definition. That's impossible to work with, but we just have three
different ways to implement it. It turns out that process has
a huge number of possible samples. And this is going to turn out
to be very important for us. This definition is unmanageable
practically, but it opens the ground to explore the possibility,
the range of possible samples we can have. There's a huge number of them. Here you see, under our second bullet, all sets of size n distinct
elements from capital N, pick one. That's what we're doing. How many possible distinct
samples are there? Well, there's a formulation for doing
this, something called combinatorics, and some of you may be familiar with
this from your work in other areas. In which, we want to choose
lowercase n from capital N. We want to choose 20 from 370. And that can be expanded, that kind of
an expression, you can do that counting, by taking the kind of
expression shown there. You'll see a fraction, a ratio,
with a 370, exclamation mark. The 370 exclamation mark
means 370 times 369 times 368 times 367 times
366 all the way down to 1, divided by (370-20)!, that is 350. 350 times 349 times 348, and so on, by the way which cancels
the stuff in the numerator, right? And also divided by 20 factorial. Well, if you do this number, it's huge. You can see what I've got there. You've got a huge number of possible
samples that can be selected. One large set of outcomes
from this process. And what we're doing is choosing
one of them by these techniques. We have three different techniques and
we've chosen one sample from any one of those
techniques to be our simple random sample. This idea of there being many possible
samples is going to be important, but it's a large set of outcomes out there, it's virtually infinite, when you
start looking at numbers like this. It's like, the currency in the lower half,
whenever I think about this, I think about these situations in
world history in which there was hyper inflation and people began manufacturing
notes that had lots and lots of zeroes. This was the dinar in Yugoslavia. And this note had to be manufactured
because the prices had escalated for various kinds of reasons, so
quickly and so dramatically, that we needed really big numbers to keep track
of things to even buy a loaf of bread. Well, here we have really
big numbers because this process has a vast number
of possible outcomes. Okay, so what practical use is it? Well, if we can use those practical
techniques we talked about in the beginning for simple random sampling,
it can be a widely used approach, process for simple problems, but
it's rarely used by practitioners now. People who do this kind of thing
all the time in isolation. To just do a simple random sample
is a little bit complicated for lay administration. I wouldn't recommend it to a lot of
people who've not done it before. It's too easy to make mistakes, and
then you worry about whether you've got the right mistake and
whether the mistake made any difference. Oftentimes, it doesn't. But there are more efficient
methods of selection available, easier to apply methods. Its appeal is that it relies
only on randomization. And so people who don't
usually do a lot of sampling might do simple random
sampling as a first resort. People who do a lot of it don't
do this as a first resort. They use other techniques that give
them better properties in their results. So simple random sampling, for the practitioners, is a tool that's to be
used in conjunction with other methods. A random sample of
elements within a group. That idea of stratification
that we talked about, that we're going to talk
about more in upcoming units. Or a random sample of the groups where
we're doing simple random sampling. What we're attempting to
do is do things in a form with simple random sampling
that we don't ordinarily do. My illustration at the lower left is,
somebody came up with decimal time. Instead of our 24-hour clock or
our 12-hour clock twice a day, dividing the day into 10 hours,
and just having that clock there. No, no, that seems straightforward,
but nobody does that. And that's what is true here for
simple random sampling. It's a nice idea, but
there are better ways. Better ways because of the need to
subdivide our time into intervals. 12 is a better number than 10 for
that purpose. So, it's just that simple random samples
are not quite the best way to do it, there's certainly
an acceptable way to do it. But I'm going to encourage us as we move
along into other techniques to think about other ways to draw samples, that will
be better than simple random sampling. Okay, so that's it for
simple random sampling. Simple random sampling gives
us our bottom line here, is that it gives us a large
set of possible samples. There are a large number
of them out there. And what we have to start thinking about
is, well gee, we only got one of them. So does it say anything about our quality? And that's something that we're going
to look at, is that distribution of our estimates from our sample,
across all of those possible samples. We're going to have to imagine this. We're going to imagine what that
distribution looks like, and then see how good our sample is, on the basis of
what that distribution looks like. It's going to take some time
to think that thing through. But we'll do that in the upcoming lecture, where we're going to look at
those kinds of questions next. Thank you.