Recall that in our recent lectures about
simple random sampling we've been dealing with the issue of sample size. And we started out talking
about sample size and sort of reverse solving
the problem backwards. Going backwards from what we want
to what we need to get there. And then, we talked a little bit about
a question about whether we could simplify that process when what
we're starting with as an outcome is a a margin of error as a summary measure. Well in this lecture, this is our sixth
lecture in the series on simple random sampling, where we're going to
be talking about sample size and its relationship to population size. We're going to be addressing the question
of whether there is such a relationship because we kept going back in
those previous two lectures and adjusting sample size for population size. Well what role does that
play in the calculation? What would I find if I started
thinking about whether or not population size and
sample size are related? And there are two results here that we're
going to see that we'll sort of summarize at the end, that are important for
you to keep in mind. These are kind of take home messages
about simple random sampling. We're going to do this
in a series of parts. We're going to talk about sample size,
revisit it. And particularly the version
that deals with margin of error. The margin of error basis for
calculating sample size. And we'll return to looking at
the leadership approval rating. But now what we're going to do
is look at leadership approval across a bunch of countries. The same phenomenon across a bunch of
countries where the population sizes are quite different. So we're going to talk about China. People's Republic of China, about the US,
about the Republic of Ireland. I'll tell you why on that one in a moment. About the Seychelles, and about Tuvalu. A tiny island in the Pacific,
the Seychelles being in the Indian Ocean. And then, we want to talk about the wrong idea about
the way to think about sample size and population size, and how what we've just
being going through, corrects those ideas. So, here's our revisit. Recall that our sample size, for a simple
random sample to be calculated, for a given margin of error,
had this formula here. And I know the formula's,
this is not much fun to look at. I just want to do a quick review here. Our sample size was determined by,
in the numerator, an S squared. And in the denominator,
an S squared over capital N. Now, that's that piece in the denominator
is the finite population adjustment. But the part that's really driving this,
driving the sample size, is to take that margin of error. Remember that's the half-width of
a confidence interval, divided by 2, this is for a 95% confidence interval. So this is quite specific. And squaring that and
adding that to that denominator quantity. So in our previous example
where we had a margin of error of 0.02 0.58 to 0.62. The margin of error, the half with
the plus or minus, was 0.02 for a 95% confidence interval. And so then we estimated our sample
size by taking our S squared, which was 0.24 for that proportion of 0.6. 0.24 divided by 250,000,000
in the denominator for the finite population correction. And then that 0.02 divided by 2 squared,
and we got a sample size of 2,399.97,
or 2,400, right? We're going to round that up. We would ordinarily, but
we always round those sample sizes up. So, there we have our calculation,
that's our calculation formula. And that denominator has a term that
is a result of the finite population correction. But that term, made almost no difference,
it didn't make any difference in the example,
it didn't change our sample size at all. That's a little odd. I would think as I mentioned
before that maybe that sample size should get bigger and bigger as
the population size gets bigger, but here we've got a great big one and
it's not changed it at all. What's going on here? So does that denominator thing
ever make a difference at all? And that's the question
we want to deal with. And then we'll look at what difference it
makes as we change population sizes and then come back to think a little
bit more about how that affects our thinking about design. Okay, so, let's look at presidential or
let's say leadership approval. We're going to ask the same kind
of question we asked before about President Barak Obama, about whether or not you approve of the job that the
current leader of the country is doing. And, whether you strongly or
somewhat approve. Or strongly or somewhat disapprove. And we're going to have some
sequence of values here. The lower left then. The past day we have been
asking this question. We want to figure out
what same size to use for the next time we do this in order to
achieve a particular level of precision. But here,
the problems are a little bit different. We're not sure what the approval rating
will be in each of these countries. The one sided for President Barack Obama,
this is in the latter part of his term as President after
almost eight years in office. And it was surprisingly high. Most presidents at that point in office
have approval ratings that are someone lower and
he has of pretty had a pretty high one. But we may be asking in the middle of
someone's term in the United States. We may be asking later in the term for
someone else and getting a lower approval
rating in a different country. Or maybe this country is very
enthusiastic about their leadership and give a very high proportion. What should we do in a case like that
where we're uncertain about what value might actually be there for
the P and thereby the S squared? Here what we're going to do is
what's referred to as being somewhat conservative. It turns out that the largest value
of S squared that you can get for all the possible values of the proportion. Now the proportion could go from
virtually 0 to virtually 1. But if you take all of those values
from let's say .01 to .99 and you were to calculate the S squared from
.01, .02, .03 all the way up to .99, the largest value of S squared would
occur when the proportion is at .5. And so, let's be a little conservative. We know that's going to be in
the numerator of our calculation. Let's use as large a value as possible
there, because we're not sure whether it's going to be really small or
really large approval rating. We're going to use the worst case,
which would be approval rating of 50%. Now that's worst case not for the leader,
but for our sample size calculation. So let's use 0.5 here. So we're going to alter our
calculations a little bit. And so what we're going to do is end
up possibly, or actually in most cases, specifying a sample size that
is larger than is needed, because we're unsure what
that proportion will be. And so
in this particular case our S squared will be on the basis of
a proportion of the 0.5 and 0.25. All right, that's our basic framework. And we're going to get the same
kind of confidence interval. We want a width of 0.02. We want a margin of error of
0.02 in all these calculations. And so let's turn to a population like
that in the People's Republic of China. A population of 1.4 billion people,
but among voters, maybe it's about 800 million. Okay, just a round number. It's not exact, but a round number. And for a 95% confidence interval
with a margin of error 0.02, we would need a variance now our variance
calculation will be a value of .0001. So what sample size would go with that? Well we're going to do a calculation then in which we take that formula
that we were just looking at. That S squared over the margin of error
divided by 2 squared + S squared over N and substitute in our values. And in our particular case,
in our substitution of values. We have in this particular
case our 0.25 now. Not 0.24 but 0.25. The worst case scenario. We have our capital N in our denominator. And then we have our margin of
error adjusted for the z value. And when we do the calculation,
we get 2,499 = 2,500. And now,
if we didn't do the population adjustment to find the population
correction in this case. We'd have exactly 2,500. So whether we're talking about
an infinitely large population or the People's Republic of China,
which is virtually the same thing as far as this is concerned it's 2500
is the sample size that we need. All right, well then what about in a country that's
smaller a quarter of the size of that? The United Sates with about 315, 320
million people, but about 215 million who would be about 18 years of age and
older, voting age. What about their approval rating? 95% confidence interval for
the margin of error 0.02. What sample size do we need in this case? And so, we plug things back in again. We put in everything except, all we do, in
this particular case is alter what we did for China by putting in 250
million in denominator. That's our finite population correction. And we see that lo and behold, our
sample size still comes out to be 2,500. So even though the population size
is one-quarter the size of China, we need the same sample size. Now this, I know, doesn't seem fair. If you're Chinese,
this certainly doesn't seem fair. You've got more people. But that's not the issue here. It is to achieve the same level of
precision we need the same sample size, regardless of the population size. Well, I'm exaggerating. Surely it must make a difference If we
change this to go to something smaller. So let's go to something much smaller. Let's go to the population of Ireland. I chose Ireland because I have
a good friend who helped me develop material that I've modified
here in these notes. We've talked together,
and he's from Ireland. Speaks with a lovely Irish accent. My wife loves his accent. My mother, her family was from Ireland. So Ireland, there's good motivation for
doing this. But here,
Ireland's a much smaller country, about 4 million people about 3.2
million voting age in Ireland. And when we do this calculation for
Ireland, now this is dramatically
smaller compared to China. We see that our sample size calculation is affected a little bit
by that population size. Now when we put in 3,200,000
in our finite population, our sample size comes out to 2,498.04. 2,499, we saved one case. It's still 2,500 as far
as we're concerned, even down to something
the size of Ireland. Compared to these other
population giants in our world. I mean, I didn't do India, but
it's same kind of thing there. Well, when does it make a difference? Well, let's go for something much smaller. Let's look at a place like
the Seychelles in the Indian Ocean. Where there's probably about 80,000, is the voting population
size in the Seychelles. Just a round number,
I know it's not exact, but here we have this island country,
much smaller in size. And now we're going to go and
do the same calculation. But now using 80,000 in that denominator. Now my population size makes a difference
my sample size drops from 2,500 to 2,425. I've saved 75 cases. Now that's the effect of
a finite population correction. It actually decreases the sample size
as the population size goes down. But really, 75 cases is not going to make
a lot of difference in terms of cost. And so I'm really still at about 2,500. Well, let's go to some of
the smaller countries in the world. Let's go to another island country,
Tuvalu, in the Pacific in Micronesia. And here with a population of about
12,000 voting, number 18 and olders. Let say 8,000 14 to 15,000, 8,000 voters. When we do the calculation,
now I see a dramatic drop. Now I've gone from 2,500 to 1,900. Now it makes a difference. But notice, we're really getting down
there in terms of population size. Most of the population sizes we dealt
with the ones that four out of five, it didn't really make a difference
that is here's a summary. Sample size depends on population size but
not in an expected way. First of all, it doesn't increase. The sample size doesn't increase
as the population size does. And above a certain limit of populus
basically it's the same, it's unaffected. If anything, if we get the small
population sizes, that sample size drops. We actually save money from
the smaller populations. But the China's, the United States', the
India's, the Russia's, the Brazil's, these large countries even down to Ireland,
it's basically the same sample size. Now why do we even bring this up? Because there are textbooks out
there that claim that sample size should be determined as
a fraction of the population, say 10%. That's what I got in the drawing
in the lower left, fraction. That's how you determine sample size. I actually had a call years ago,
from somebody who was about to conduct a survey in a province of Canada and they
were being told that they should calculate the sample size as a certain fraction
of the population of that province. And they were saying
this is enormous in size. Does that really the way
we calculate sample size? And when we went through this kind
of an exercise it turned out to be quite a bit different. The larger the population,
the larger the sample size, that's what would happen if we
were doing a fraction like that. Directly proportional
to the population size. It's kind of the lay understanding,
that's how people think about this. Yes, the larger the population you
should have a larger sample size. In fact,
you have probably heard this some times. Here it is,
this is the common sense perception. How can a sample size of only 800 or 2,500 represent the entire voting
public of 250 million in the US? I chose 800, because a lot of
the political polls that go on during elections in the United States and other
countries are not much larger than 800. 800, 1000, 1200, maybe 2,000,
maybe 2,500, but they're small in size. How can that represent the entire
population when the population's so large? That is based on the misperception that
population size determines sample size. And what we've just seen
is that it doesn't. It's basically unrelated until we
get the very small populations. Okay, so keep that in mind then as
you're thinking about this sample size determination is something that is not
based on the size of the population. And shouldn't be done on
the basis of a fraction like that. Well that's it for simple random sampling. We've had a lot of formulas here. We're going to move on to talking
about cluster samples next. And the unit is labeled saving money. Cluster samples are about saving money. You're not going to need to memorize
the formula you've got here, you've got a reference back to them now. You've got these notes. But hopefully, when you look at them,
you'll see them not as formulas, but as distilled representations
of a set of ideas and principles about how to
deal with the numbers, the data we get from supportive
samples and then how to go backwards. How to go back to the beginning
from an end point and figure out what we need
in order to draw a sample that's going to give us a certain
level of quality in our results. So, let's turn next to cluster
sampling as we move into unit three about saving money. Thank you.