Welcome back to the second
part of our lecture, second lecture on cluster sampling, on saving money in survey sampling with
sampling people records and networks. Where we have in order to get at
the people or the records or the networks, we have them grouped into these kinds
of groups that we're calling clusters. They are called clusters because that's
what we use in our sample selection. So there's no, it's a generic meta term
that we're using to apply to these. It's how we're using these particular
groupings in our sample selection. And you recall that we have been
discussing complex sampling, the cluster sampling is in
addition to the random sampling, to make our designs go from simple random
selection to complex random selection. We started out with
equal sized clusters and taking all the elements and
that's what we're still dealing with here. And in this particular lecture we're
moving to discuss the design effects and intraclass correlation,
more about intraclass correlation and roh. So we just in the last lecture,
the last part of this lecture, talked about how the design effect
is driven by three factors. The simple rate of sample
variance is a base of one, the number of elements we select for a
cluster, we were calling that lower case b in our particular illustration 24 and
the rate of homogeneity roh. Let's talk a little bit more about roh,
where is it coming from? How does this homogeneity arise? Well, for
the school children in the classroom why would there be differences between the
classrooms that would be bigger on average than they are among the children
themselves in terms of their characteristics with respect
to immunization status? And this roh as a property of the cluster
is reflecting something important that is more of a substantive
rather than statistical property. It's not, statistic is introducing this,
its how the kids get to school. Most of the schools
are drawing their children from the neighborhood around them. Then what's happening when we see
differences between classrooms in schools, but also classrooms across schools, is that we're seeing differences
across neighborhoods. Well, what would make for differences across neighborhoods
in immunization status? We can answer that question
from our own understanding. We understand that these neighborhoods
would differ in terms of The income level of the families,
the education level of the parents. And these factors could influence
immunization status because low income households would have potentially
less access to healthcare. Might also have higher cost for
healthcare and certainly as a fraction
of their expenditures. And then think about this
differently because of the cost, access as well as cost. They also may come from
educational backgrounds where this kind of thing has not being
emphasized in their history. But wait a minute, why are there incontinent education
differences across the neighborhoods? That's a broad social phenomena,
a structural element in our societies. Neighborhoods are not the same. Often times the differences between
neighborhoods have to do with the economics. The housing stock is different
in different neighborhoods. In that housing stock will cost
different amounts of money, there's often times homogeneity in housing
stock within a given neighborhood. And that draws people
with similar incomes and education backgrounds to purchase
those homes,those rental homes. Parents will also chose neighborhoods
where they can afford to live, then perhaps have the reputation of having
schools with higher quality education. All of these factors are going on and there what's creating these
differences among the classrooms. And that kind of thing it's
not a statistical phenomena, that's a subset phenomena that's
having an impact on our statistics. All right, so roh,
this idea that people group together in groupings where they're more alike, and
therefore different between each other, leads to homogeneity
within these groupings. Homogeneity that is
almost always positive. People are more like one another,
a positive correlation, than they are different from one
another within the same clusters. Now this is the typical,
I'm not saying this always exists, but this is the typical situation. And so, roh is positive. Now it's coming about then because
of factors such as the environment, they may be exposed to certain things
in the environment that are different. It may be because of self-selection. They've chosen to live in this
neighborhood because of the income, that they have and
the housing that they can afford. They may have chosen to live there because
of the schools, the nature of the schools. And they've chosen to be in that
neighborhood with other people who are also have similar concerns or are making similar choices
with respect to education. It also is due to the interaction
among the subjects. It may be that in that community
they talk of one another and on that neighborhood they have
similar concerns about immunization. Its's dangerous,
there are complications or its benefits. That interaction tends to
change their attitudes and make them more alike with
respect to their attitudes. All these things are leading
to differences between and homogeneity within. So roh is as I said more
substantive than statistical. Now that simple random sample of size 240
in the cluster sample can be thought of then, because of this and
that's 240 independent selections. And yes, we had ten independent
selections of clusters, but there's an equivalency
here that we might draw. It's a little hard to imagine,
but just think about it this way. I'm closing my eyes to try and imagine it
because it's a little bit complicated. If I had a simple random sample size of
240, and I was in the cluster sample, losing in precision, what would be the cluster sample
equivalent to that simple random sample? That is, how many elements could I have
in that clustered sample that would, after I factor out that homogeneity and
that increase in variance be the equivalent of
the 240 in the simple random sample? And here's another use
of that design effect. There's a term called
effective sample size. So the 240 simple random sample
size is when divided by 3.029, that design effect we calculated,
79, about one third as large. That is, our cluster sample would be
the equivalent of a simple random sample of size 79, not 240. And that now begins to
give us some impact, some notion of the impact of
the cluster sampling on our outcomes. So that effective sample size is another
measure built around the design effect that we can use to asses the effect of
the cluster sampling on our results. Let's look at two illustrations, just
to look at this road a little bit more. Suppose then instead of the distribution
that we saw in the last lecture, for those ten classrooms, we had this
distribution, where we can see quite clearly here, that these cluster
samples are really unevenly divided. We're seeing that we have
three of these where we have no immunizations occurring at all. And we have six of them where
everybody is immunized. And then because of
the numerator ask to add to 160, we've got one that's sort of in between. Now that's a huge difference between. As a matter of fact, that's the largest
difference between we could get. In this case it's almost sort
of perfect heterogeneity and perfect homogeneity within. So start of the calculation here. Calculate the s of a squared 0.2222. If you remember our s of a squared,
well maybe you don't but you can come back and look at it. When we had the other distribution
was around 0.027 something like that. Well, here it's much larger. Well, that's what we would expect and
the variance used to be 0.0027, now it's 0.022, 0.02178. So our variances have gone up a lot
because of this virtually perfect heterogeneity between and
homogeneity within. The design effect, if I compare this
now to a simple sample of size 240, the same one that we had before,
this design effect is 24. It's virtually the number
of elements in the cluster. As a matter of fact, that's the largest
the design effect could be is 24. And roh of the effective
sample size now is 10. In other words because of
the perfect homogeneity every time I take another
element out of the cluster, because I have this perfect homogeneity
I am not learning anything new. The first one tells me everything
I need to know about the cluster. It's what the exception
of one cluster here. When I take the first element,
if it's a zero, they're not immunized, I know the other 23 are not
immunized in this situation. So really, the ten random events are the effective
sample size in this particular case. This is the extreme now. And roh is one, row is virtually one,
perfect homogeneity. That's the contrast,
that's the nature of this phenomenon. But now let's compare it to a different
case that we probably wouldn't expect to see in practice either and
that is where all the rates are the same. Always, two-thirds, 16 of 24, every
cluster is a microcosm of the population. In a case like this we got some
ridiculous kinds of results. We get no variants, no sampling variants,
or no element variants, or cluster variants that's with a squared. Designed effect to zero an effective
sample size is not define but here roh is actually slightly negative. You need a weird situation like
this to get a negative roh. A roh, as I said, tends to be positive. It's very seldom negative because it would
take some unusual distributions like this. This is beyond what would happen even
if you allocated the children at random across those classrooms. You wouldn't expect to see the same
number in every classroom. This is kind of a weird case. They can come up and practice. They're unusual. More often, you would see a negative
roh because of estimation issues. They're beyond what we can do
in this particular course. But nonetheless,
we can get that negative value there. Okay, now let's just go
through this one more time. And this time, let's try and do some estimation from
a little different perspective. Suppose at what I've,
I've been doing is reading articles and journals about a particular phenomenon
I'm interested in studying, or maybe it's the area I'm working in. And I've come across an article, in which
they're describing a characteristic that I'm very interested in, that they
estimate in the population, is 40%. 0.4 is the fraction, of the population
that has this characteristic, and that's based on a sample survey, in
which they had 2,400 people in the sample. It turned out to be a one stage
cluster sample with 60 clusters, each of 40 elements each, and the clusters
were selected with simple random samples. And so, I've looked at the journal
articles, very interesting to me, and I think, I'd like to replicate this. I'd like to understand a little bit
more about this but first of all, it's a cluster sample. What's the impact of this cluster
sampling on the outcomes? And it turns out that in the paper
they gave us a standard error for that proportion, the square root of
the sampling variance, so I squared it. And there you see it, that sampling
variance is 0.00021795, okay? The actual value is around 0.015 for
the standard error so I squared it and got that number. How much of that standard error, how much of that variance
is due to cluster sampling? What's the design effect and roh? Well, now I'm going to need to construct
the simple random sampling equivalent. I don't have the data, but
I could do it because it's a proportion. If you recall, by doing the following. Compute the simple random sampling
variance, step one in this calculation. P times one minus p over n minus one. I´m going to ignore the one minus m,
actually I´m rounding it to one. The sampling fraction here,
it turned out that the paper was based on a sample of persons 18 years of age and
older in a province, in a state. There were a lot of them. There were millions of them and
I just have a sample of 2400. So that sampling fraction's fairly small. One minus that sampling
fraction's close to one. p times 1- p over n- 1 is sufficient. All right, if I could calculate that,
then I could calculate the design effect because I already know
the actual variance. And so in this particular case I've got my
actual variance, 0.00021795 in step two. And I'm going to divide
it by that p times 1- p. And then I would have my design effect,
and I can calculate the roh
by backing that up. That's the steps I could
use in the process. So let's go through and
do those calculations. Here's a simple random sampling variance. The proportion is 0.4, times 1 minus
proportion is 0.6, divided by 2,400. Well, 0.4 times 0.6 is 0.24. I get a sampling variance,
simple random sample now of 0.0001. Much smaller than what I had than before. How much smaller? Well, here's the design effect. The design effect, when I put that into
that simple random sampling variance into the denominator is 2.1795, 2.18. And now I can calculate
my roh value as well, that homogeneity that's
driving this as 0.0302, 0.03. And I'll let you follow
through on the calculations. Make sure that we've done them correctly. And now, I now understand
something that's going on here. The cluster sampling is doubling
the variance compared to the simple random sample of the same size. It's being driven by homogeneity value
that's fairly small but positive. But because that is a fairly large cluster
size, it's being magnified by 40 or 40 minus 1 to give us that design
effect of 2.18, all right? I've gotten a better understanding of what
the nature of the impact of the design is. Well, there are two directions
we should go at this point. One of them is to talk about,
which we'll do in the next lecture, what happens when we do subsampling. Instead of taking all, what happens when we take a subsample
in each of the sample clusters. And then secondly, how could we use this
kind of background in this context to try and design the next sample. I'm now interested in this study,
I think I want to replicate it. I have a particular population in mind,
a different one. I want to be able to estimate what's
going to happen in that population before I even do it so
that I can go to my sponsor and tell them look,
here's the sample I'm going to do. Here's the size, here's cost. And this is what I expect to get. And getting that sample size and this is what I expect to get is
an important part of the design process. And one that we're going to look at how
we're going to deal with in lecture four. But not lecture three now. We'll look at two state sampling next. Thank you.