Welcome again to sampling people,
records and networks. And our discussion in unit
three on cluster sampling or saving money and
using clusters to do that. We've moved on now to our third
lecture on two-stage sampling. Where we're going to be discussing
what happens when we don't take all the elements. So it's complex sample, it's clustered. But it's been simple. The clusters are still equal in size for
this one. We will move to unequal size clusters,
as we said, in Lecture 5. But they're still equal in size. But now instead of taking all the elements
within each we take only a subset. And that's what we mean by the two stage, first the sampling in the first
stage of the clusters. And a sampling of the second stage
of the elements within the clusters. We're going to talk about four topics
here on how the samples are selected. What impact that has on sampling variance. The design effect so that's a review
of similar kinds of topics we had. But then what effect the sub
sampling has on design effects. So let's go back to our representation for
our cluster population now. The one involves the 18 blocks
of eight housing units each. And we're estimating some
characteristic for these housing units. And we're going to be doing our
cluster sample now in two stages. In the first stage we're going
to draw a sample of clusters. So we've selected six blocks,
first of the 18. We have the list of 18, we do a simple
random sample of six without replacement to avoid getting the same
one more than once. Now there are some technical issues here,
that we're going to ignore in this, that have to do with
the sampling variance. I'm going to give you a simplified
expression for the sampling variance, that's suitable for this. But it's not necessarily
technically complete. But it's okay for our purposes. Six clusters are there to select and
then what are we going to do? We're going to sub-sample
housing units within each. And so, we have one sample for
the clusters and now we have six additional samples for the housing
units, one for each of the clusters. So in cluster one we drew a sub-sample and
we got the corners by chance. In cluster four that fell into
our sample we got the four housing units shown there, and so on. And those are random selections. Separate, independent, random
selections within each of the clusters. Now for our purposes, the sampling variance of this kind of
thing is the same as what we had before. It’s that 1 minus f over a. 1 minus the sampling fraction,
divided by the number of random events in the first stage of
selection times Sa squared. Sa squared being the variability
of the cluster characteristics. Now we’re going to compute for each of
the clusters then a mean or proportion. Whatever it is that we're measuring for,
for these clusters. And look at the variability among
them just the same way we did before. Now, as I said,
technically this is not complete. There actually is a second component
of variance, as you would expect, because we're doing additional
six random samples. And there's a component of variance that
averages the variability across those that could be added in here. But it turns out that when we
go to estimate this quantity, when we go to compute the standard error. Now remember our display here,
I keep coming back to this, where we've now got a cluster
population and a cluster sample. And estimates from each of those and
we could imagine our sampling distribution and its variability and
the standard error. If we use in the computation of that
estimated standard error in step six, lower case sa2. The same kind of between cluster
variability that's based on cluster sub sample results. We get the right variance, and it incorporates into it the within-cluster
variability automatically. Now, it's just beyond the scope
of what we're able to do here. Both from a theoretical, and a practical
point of view, to describe that. Other than to say the following. Remember that that sa squared was built
around p sub alphas or y bar sub alphas. The characteristic for the cluster
based on the sample information. And when we do the sub sampling that
p sub alpha or that y bar sub alpha. The thing that happens within each cluster
has two sources of variability in it. One source is the between cluster
phenomenon, the selection of the clusters. Because we get a different value for the P sub alpha or the Y bar sub alpha
depending on what cluster is there. And the second source is
the within cluster sample. When we draw a sample of elements and we get one sub-sample of
four housing units in one. We could do a different subsample
in that same cluster and get a different subsample
of four elements. And so we can get different
values of p sub alpha even for the same cluster depending on
the subsampling that occurred. So lower case sa squared there,
the estimate from the data actually includes both between and
within variance. So, as I say beyond the scope of
this course to go into that in any more detail than I just have. Except to reassure you that
between cluster variabilities, sample between cluster variability. Is sufficient to estimate the variance of
the entire overall sampling distribution. So, let's go back to
our classroom example. So we've been talking about the blocks and
we can see how that works, but let's go back to
the classroom example now. So the blocks we were sampling,
I know it wasn't people but it was some kind of records perhaps for
these housing units. It was some kind of data for
the housing units. But maybe it was also for the people who were there in their
aggregates in units called households. But now let's go to another
example of cluster sampling. Or return to one in which we have 1000
classrooms in our school district of elementary school children. Maybe they're in their first year,
their second year, and we've sampled now in this case 20 of them. So instead of doing ten as we did
before and take all 24 children. What we're going to do in this
case is sample 20 of them and take 12 children in each. Now why would we do that? Well because we know that that
design effect is driven by how many, in part,
how many elements we select per cluster. If we do half as many kids per cluster,
the design effect should go down. And, indeed, if we were to do this and
empirically examine the results, we would see design effects
decreasing when we did this. So from the capital N,
we've drawn a sample again of 240. But, in this case, lower case a is 20 and
lower case b is 12. We're taking a sub-sample. Here are the results now for
the immunizations now. You can see what I'm telling you about. We now have twice as many classrooms. We have different rates,
different fractions for these. I put them on two lines. That's the data we're working with. And we have a couple of classrooms
here where everybody's immunized. And the smallest is about
a third of them being immunized. And the sum of the numerators there,
just for this illustration, is 160, so that I've got the same
result that I had before. It's just that I've got it spread
across twice as many clusters. Well the overall proportion
immunized is still 0.67. This design is unbiased,
the sampling process is unbiased for the proportion or the mean. On average if I did all possible cluster
samples of 20 with 12 elements each. It's a complicated design, and counting the number of samples
it's a more complicated process. But on average I'm going to get the right
result across all of those possible samples. And the sampling variance,
as we just noted, would be calculated in the same way. Treating the clusters now of
12 students per classroom. I'd get the immunization rate for
each of the 20 classrooms, and look at the variability of those
around that 0.67, just as we did before. Calculating an Sa squared,
add then a 1-f/a Sa squared. But now my sampling fraction is comprised
of two parts, a/A, 20 from 1,000, 0.02. And then 12 from 24, one half. It's the same sampling rate as we had
before because it's the same sample size. Lower case a20 times lower
case b12 is still 240. So I've still got the same
sampling fraction but now I've divided it across these
two stages in the sample selection. But I've got the same
sampling variance and the same standard error calculation that
we've been doing, that we did before. I won't go through and
do the calculation here. If you want to you could try it out and see what you get in the way of
sampling variance and design effects. We're going to get a design effect though
which is a ratio of the actual variance to the simple random sampling variance for
a sample of the same size. Note in this case the cluster
sampling variance would be different than what we had
from the previous take all case. Here, with the sub sampling or
two-stage sampling. We're going to expect that sampling
variance to shrink because if the homogeneity holds up,
I mean that isn't going to change. That's the characteristic of the cluster, not of the sample clusters but
the clusters themselves. But the simple random sampling
variance stays the same. It's still 240 cases, still the same
proportion we had before of 0.67. And selecting many elements from clusters decreases our variances
in this particular case. So still the roh value which was
fairly small in this particular case when we dealt with this before,
about 0.03. It can be magnified by b. In this case, b is 12 instead of 24 but it's magnified less because of
the nature of the design effect. So one way to think about
the design now to see how it affects possible sampling variance. And remember our sampling variance,
our actual sampling variance. Is the product of our design effect and
our simple random sampling variance. So that we can think about in this
particular case a little bit about how that impact is going to change. As we change the nature of the design and
change the design effect. The changing nature of the design
in the cluster sample case. As long as we keep that
sampling size the same. Still has the same support
of sampling variance, but the design effect is modified. So any change to the design effect then
is a change to the sampling variance. Any change to the sample design
components that affect the design effect. B, the sub sample size,
will change the sampling variance as well. So manipulating sampling
fractions between first and second stages to maintain
overall sample size. Which is what we've done. Will reveal something about
the nature of the design effect and the effective sample size as well. Recall effective sample size can be now altered because our
design effect has also changed. So, for example, suppose that we have
our 20 classrooms and 12 elements each. What would I project the design effect
would be in this particular case? Well, I have a formula for
this that I can use. Recall that our homogeneity value
was 0.088 in this particular case. 0.088, so I don't expect that to change
just because I'm now taking 12 kids instead of 24, the homogeneity
in the classroom's the same. It's going to be only 12 elements that you
have available to measure that in terms of my design effect and roh calculations. So I'm going to use that same
homogeneity from the past study to project forward to the new study. That 0.088 times 12 minus 1 or 11 plus
1 gives me a design effect of 1.97. Not three, the design effect
we had before, but two, 1.97. And my effective sample size if you
recall from the previous example, where we took all. The design effect was three. And the effective sample size was 79, 80. Here I have lost about half of
the information in my sample of 240 by doing cluster samples,
from 240 to 120. Before where I took all of the children
with this level of homogeneity, I lost two thirds of it. I went from 240 down to about 80. So we're better off doing this. But this is a little misleading. We have to be careful here. Because now what we've
done is increase our cost. Cluster costs are bigger
than element costs. And now what we've done is introduce more
clusters, same number of elements, but more clusters. And those clusters cost us more money because of the listing that has to go
with it and the travel that goes to them. And so there's a disproportionate
effect here on the cost. This is not the same cost design
as when we took ten clusters and took all 24 of the children
in each of them. [COUGH] But we could alter this just
to see the nature of the effects here. Where we have 30 classrooms and we take
eight, children, the same sample size, 30 by eight is 240. The design effect now, again,
projecting it forward 0.088, what we had for our homogeneity. Magnified now by a sample size
of eight within each cluster. 8 minus 1, or 7, plus 1, 1.62. And my effective sample
size goes up to 148. Okay, I can see now what's going on. The design effect is going down,
the effective sample size is going up. Design effect is going down,
my sampling variance for my cluster sample is going down. Same sample size times the simple
random sampling sampling variance. And so I'm getting an impact here that
is shrinking sampling variance but is costing me money. In order to reduce the sampling variance
I can increase the number of clusters and decrease the number of
elements per cluster. But I increase my cost. So I'm going to have to
keep that in mind as well. And we'll come back to talking about
this in our last lesson here for this particular unit. I can even go to the extreme and
just take three kids per classroom, three students per
classroom in 80 classrooms. And now I can see, boy,
that design effect has shrunk to 1.18 and my effective sample size is up over 200,
okay? Well, this is okay as a manipulation. It's just to illustrate
what's going on here. I do need to figure out
a way to manipulate this. I can't go on and do these calculations all the time in
order to figure out where I should be. I need some way to balance
the cost that I'm seeing. The cost is varied, these three designs,
plus the one that we started out with, with ten classrooms and 24 elements each. Each costs a different amount. What should I do here? Which of these classroom
sizes should I use? Which of the values of b should I use? What's the best mix for what I've got? And there's a model system that we've
gotta come to discuss that we'll do later on in our lectures here
in this particular unit. For now though let's move on, we're
going to take these two-stage samples when we've been learning about
design effects in roh. And we're now going to apply it to let's
think about designing two-stage samples. What kinds of things do we need to
do in order to do those designs? And then you'll see lecture 6 coming up,
we'll figure out what that b value is. What's the best A and B to work with any
particular cost system after we consider some unequal size clusters in lecture 5. But our next lecture, we'll be designing
two stage samples, join me then, thank you.