In our last part of lecture five we
were dealing with a problem concerning unequal sized clusters and the mess
it was making of our sample design. We were either dealing with
more complicated estimators, or because of variation in sample size,
or a nice clean sample design, but the need to wait. The need to create weights to compensate
to avoid bias in our samples, in our estimation. And as I said, we're going to come
back and talk about weighting later. But here what we're going to do is
continue in our discussion of dealing with the real world and sampling unequal size
clusters in lecture five by continuing on our discussion by looking at
an alternative to these other schemes for dealing with unequal size
clusters in our sampling. In dealing with them through a sample
selection mechanism in two stages, that we're going to call probability
proportionate to size, or PPS. So what we require is a method that has some of the properties of the two
things that we were just dealing with. Number one, equal chance,
one in 60, for all the employees. That was an attractive feature for
us, and so, that Epsem, equal probability of selection method was
attractive, and we want to retain that. At the same time, we would like to
retain the features of the alternative method where we had the same number of
elements in each of the subsamples. So let's consider two clusters
from two hospitals from our population of 12 in which we're
going to take 15 employees in each. And we've just set up kind of an algebra
problem here, a selection equation. Our overall f is going to
come in two parts. It's gotta be one in 60
as our overall rate. As going to be done in two parts. A probability of selection
of the cluster P of alpha, alpha for the cluster,
and then within sampling, where we're taking 50 employees
from those that are actually there. It depends on which cluster are selected
as to what that denominator is, so I've just put in capital B sub alpha. It could be 50 from 60. It could be 50 from 180. Could be 50 from 1,860. But that's what we've just said by
saying that it has to be equal chance. That's the 1 in 60, and in two stages
on the second stage, I want the same number of employees, the same number
of elements from each of the clusters. That's the beginning. Now what should that piece of alpha be? So we'll do a little manipulation. We can do this to figure
out what it would be. But it turns out that that first
stage sampling fraction, if we look at that last expression there, the
probability of selection of the hospital, the alpha hospital, is going to be
proportionate to the size of the hospital. B subalpha over 3,000, that's what
will get that equation to work. But wait a minute? How am I going to sample hospitals
with varying probabilities? I know how to sample employees with
varying probabilities across the hospital. That's easy, I just take the same number
and then take it from how are many are they're, but
how am I going to do something like this? Well the fractions work out this way. This kind of thing says that what we're
going to do is take two hospitals with probabilities proportionate to size,
and then take the same number of employees in each, that's what all of
these equations refer to. Across two stages we're going to get
balance in the overall sampling fraction for all the employees, they all have the same chance of being
selected by doing it in two steps, where the first step, we over sample
big hospitals and under sample small. But, in the second step, we over sampled
employees in small hospitals and under sample employees in large hospitals,
and the produce of the two always
comes out to be our one in 60. Boy, I need an easy way to do this
because that sounds complicated to me. It's hard to keep track of,
this is an bookkeeping problem. We know have to keep track of
probabilities of selection for the hospitals and for
the employees within hospitals. But it can be managed as
long as we're careful and go through this slowly with
our available information. So let's go back to our list of hospitals,
here they are now, here's all twelve of them,
and do a PPS sample. And I've added a new column here,
the cumulative size of the hospital. So, notice for hospital one, the actual
size is 420, the cumulative size is 420. For hospital two, the actual size is 180, the cumulative size is 600,
which is 420 plus 180. For the third hospital, it's size,
it's actual size is 120. It's cumulative is 720. 600 plus 120.
We keep adding in the sizes successively, till we get down to the 12th hospital
where its actual is 240, and its cumulative size is 6,000, which is
the total number in our population. So here's the process, what we're going to
do is generate a random number now, not from one to 12 but from one to 6,000. Let's suppose that we select two
random numbers from one to 6,000. The first random number is 702. Four-digit random number from 1 to 6,000,
07, 02, 1744 is the second one. We're going to go through and
find the first hospital on the cumulative sum whose cumulative sum is greater than
or equal to the first random number, and then we're going to do the same thing for
the second number. Find the hospital whose
cumulative sum first exceeds, as we're working our way down the list,
to that number. That chooses hospital three and seven. So you can see now I've lined
up 702 with hospital three. Because 702 falls in the range, if you will,
from 601 one more than hospital two's, but it's included in hospital three's up to
720, and the 1744 falls in the range, let's see, from hospital five to six,
from 1561 to 1920. In the first case,
there are 120 numbers from 600 to 720. 601, 602, 603 and so on through 720. 120 numbers we chose one of them. But that means that I could have
chose any one of the numbers from 601 to 720 in that hospital. The chance of that hospital with
one random selection being selected is 120 from the 6,000. Of, that's what we wanted, is proportionate to it's size
using the cumulative numbers. Similarly for hospital six,
there are 360 numbers that go from 1561, the one that's above hospital five,
from 1561 to 1720. 360 from 6000,
that's its chances of being selected, and we happen to get one of them, 1744. So now, we've made two draws, each with
probabilities proportioned to size, which is what we wanted
in the first stage. Now we can go to the second stage and
take 50 at random from 120, and 50 at random from the 360 in hospitals
three and six, respectively. That has a danger, though. We could end up selecting
the same hospital more than once. We could have gotten the same
random number twice or random numbers from the same hospital. So to avoid that problem, we're going
to do a form of systematic sampling. Something that we'll come back to, so
just learn the mechanics right now. Let's start with that
first random number 702. Now let's pretend now that this was
selected not from one to 6,000, but from one to 3,000,
the first half of the list. We're going to get a selection from
the first half of the list for our first one, and then we're going to
find the selected hospital as before. But then we're going to add 3,000. Go from the first half of
the list to the second, to 3702, which gets us a different hospital,
in that case, hospital 10. This is what's called systematic
probability proportionate to size. We're dividing the list into two groups, because we have two
samples that we're doing. The first half of the list from
which we draw one at random, and the second half of the list from
which we count the size of the group, the list size divided by
two to get the second one. And that gives us our two selections
then of hospitals three and 10, and we will not select the same
hospital more than once. We only get one shot at each. One from the first half,
one from the second half. So in that particular case then,
we now have our sample method in terms of not only being able to sample hospitals
that are unequal in size, with equal chance of the elements within them, and
get the same size subsamples from each. But do this in a way that avoids
getting the selection of a hospital more than once, systematic PPS selection. All right.
That's a little complicated but I wanted you to understand this because
this is what happens in the real world. It's a more complicated version
of what we've been doing. We're going to do one more
topic here on subsampling. I want to come back to
that subsample size B. I know this is a little
out of sequence but it's kind of hard to put it in sequence
because these are practical problems and they don't necessarily fit together
in some neat logical order. But we're going to talk about how
to figure out how many elements to take for cluster. Where do we decide to
have 50 per hospital, besides saying two hospitals for
a sample of a 100, why two? Why not three or five or something else? Okay, that'll be our next
topic on subsampling. Please join us then for our last lecture
in unit three at cluster sampling. Thank you.