We've been talking about complex samples,
but more of the simple variety, the variety that deals with
clusters that are equal in size. And we've dealt with two
different issues there basically. When we take those clusters
that are equal in size, we sample them and
then we take all the elements within them. Or, the sub sampling,
the two state sampling. And we dealt with some of
the elements not only out of, make those selections and their levels of
precision, but also their design effects. Here, in this part of unit
three we're going to look at, in this lecture, the issues
concerning unequal sized clusters. And we sort of labeled this, we have labeled this dealing with
the real world unequal sized clusters. Because those examples were a little
artificial, remember the equal size blocks or the equal size classes, we know
that's not the case in the real world. What happens when those
cluster sizes vary? Now when we start talking about unequal
size clusters we need to talk about them in the context of some examples where
there's more variation than we might see in school size or classroom size. Classroom sizes remain fairly similar, they don't usually go from
a few to a few hundred. But here we're talking about
cases where these unequal cluster sizes can vary
a lot more than that. So, we're going to talk about
the nature of the problem. There's a problem that arises
when these clusters are unequal size in our sample selection. We're talking about some sampling schemes
for those and then talk about a solution that's called Probability Proportionate
to Size Sampling or PPS. And we're going to do PPS, two different
versions of it, in this discussion here. So, we're going to deal with the basics
of our problem and see if we can come up with a description of
a method that deals with it, okay. So, we're dealing with naturally
occurring clusters: schools or classrooms or we don't create those. If I created them, they'd be artificial. So by natural, those that are occurring
out there in the real world. And in that real world construction, we get this phenomena where we
get differences between them. If I were to construct these things,
I'd try and construct them, so that they were had equal means the means were all the same there
would be no variation between them. Now that would be a disaster right,
because what I would have to do to do that would be for
the school children massive busing. I would have to bus these kids all
over the place in order to get them to the point where they could have roughly the same immunization
rate in each classroom. That's not what we're talking about here. I'm taking materials that are readily
available, a list of classrooms, and then I'm doing my
sampling using that material. I'm trying to keep the cost
down of the sampling operation. We've been talking about when we do
the sampling then also about sampling rates of these clusters that
were kind of fixed rates. We would take a fraction
of the classrooms. We would take 20 of the 1,000classrooms. 2% and then we would take one half of the
students within each of the classrooms. Now that works well when they're
equal in size but when they're unequal in size we run into some problems
and here's an illustration of it. This, just a hypothetical list
of a set of 12 hospitals. I've put them in two columns because
the numbers get a little small for our first display, we'll do that later. Here are the sizes of the hospitals
in terms of employees. So, our task here is to sample
the employees in these hospitals and, let's say, ask them about their
satisfaction with their work environment. And the satisfaction with
the benefits that they received, the work hours, the kinds of things that
we're interested in studying because we want to assess how well our employees are
doing in our particular hospital system. These are 12 hospitals from a hospital
system in some In some state, in some province, across provinces but
they're interlinked in some way. And so, that we can see here now
that the number of hospitals varies. So, for each hospital there's
a count in the number of employees. I've now called that capital B, capital B
for the number of elements in the cluster sub alpha B because it varies from
alpha equal to 1, to alpha equal to 12. So the hospital number is
the value of alpha that changes. The B sub alpha is the size. We can see that these sizes vary from 60. Two of them have about 60 employees. To one of the hospitals having
many times that number, 1860. So we've got a big variation here
in the size, probably 30 to 1. And that gives us some pause. Because suppose what we decide
to do is draw a sample. We've figured out that we can
afford to do about 100 employees. And we're just going to do two
hospitals just to keep it simple here. Now ordinarily in practice we'd
want more hospitals than this, but we're going to do this sample by selecting
100 employees from two hospitals. So, we're going to group our data, so that we can do more
interviews in each hospital. I added up the sizes there are 6,000
employees across these 12 hospitals. So, an average of 500 but
they vary from 60 to 1,860. Okay, so I am going to do a hundred from
6,000 that is my sampling fraction though we haven't talked in these terms before,
but that's really what I've specified. Now by specifying that sample size, and
knowing what the population size is, I'm taking one out of
every 60 employees there. That's my sampling rate. And we're going to do this by first
selecting two of the hospitals. And let's say we are going to do a simple
random sample, as we did before. We're going to generate two
random numbers from 1 to 12. And take those two hospitals
without replacement. That's a first stage rate then of 1 in 6. 1/6th of the 2/12th. So that means that if I've now said
that I'm going to do 100 employees from the 6,000 hospitals,
that's the overall rate. That's the overall f. And then, I'm taking 1/6th of
the hospitals to get there. I've also forced something. Maybe I didn't realize it at first,
but I forced something. If I'm taking one-sixth of
the hospitals to get one-sixtieth of the employees overall,
I can only take one-sixtieth of the employees in each
hospital to pull this off. Those two numbers, one-sixth times
one-tenth have to equal one-sixtieth. And what I did was I sort of naturally
thought about what's the overall rate? 1 in 60. Now let's start in hospitals,
take 2 from 12, 1/6th of them. That forces me to have 1/10th
from each of the hospitals. Okay, all right, that sounds, okay. I can do some kind of sampling there
by figuring out what one-tenth would be in each case and
draw that simple random sample, except that there's
a problem here [COUGH]. Suppose that at random,
hospitals 2 and 6 are chosen. And now, what I'm going to do is take
1/10th of each of those hospitals. Now, hospital 2 has 180 employees. You can go back and check it. So, I'm going to take 18 from hospital 2. But hospital 6 has 360 employees. I'm going to take 36 from them,
one-tenth of each. And when I add them up it's 54. It's not 100. Now my sampling rate is still 1 in 60,
but I'm not getting my sample size. Even worse, suppose instead of 2 and
6, I got 2 and 10. Now, I have 18 employees that I'm going to
get from the first hospital of 180 and 186 from the second hospital of 1,860. Now my sample size is 204. I'm not even coming close. I'm coming half as large as what I wanted,
and twice as large as what I wanted just
by chance selection of the hospitals. The sub sample size varies in this case. Sample administration is
a little bit difficult. I'm going to have to think about this. If I only have one interviewer,
I know they are going to spend half a day at the first hospital
interviewing 18 employees. Two days at the hospital number 6,
but a lot more time, 10 times as many days and
5 10 times as much time in hospital 10. So, I don't like this. It's also impossible for
me to estimate cost. I'm going to be called upon to say for
this sample design what can we have in the way of
information about how to estimate cost. And I've got a sample size that
varies by a factor of four to one. This scheme has got some problems in it. And the reason is because
the hospital sizes vary and I did something fairly naive
about the sample selection. Now the variation in the overall sample
size is undesirable from the operational point of view and
from the budget point of view. It's also undesirable from
the statistical point of view. Recall that we calculated our means y bars by taking the sum of
the characteristic we were measuring. And in this case,
maybe it's a satisfaction score. We asked them to rate on a scale from 0
to 10 how satisfied they are with their overall working conditions. And they gave us a number from 0 to 10. And we take the average of those numbers,
and that's what we're looking is
that satisfaction vector, but the n that we're dividing by will not be
100, it's going to be 54 in one case, 204 in another in different samples
will get us different samples. The hospitals will give us
different sample sizes. So, okay, we're just going to divied by
the 54 the 204 that makes the most sense. But the statistician now points out that,
hey, that sample size is not n anymore. It's not 100. It varied. It's a random variable. And when you do this,
when you divide by 54 in one case, or 204 in the next one,
depending on which hospitals you've got, you're really getting an estimator
that varies in the denominator. And now, we've got a numerator, y,
the satisfaction score, summed up. And in the denominator, the sample size. That the sample size is going
to vary from cluster to cluster. Well, I'm giving you that ratio estimated
formula there, we're not going to deal with it, we just don't have
the time to do that in this course. Some of this will come up
in a latter course, but none the less,
it changes the nature of the estimator and life gets more complicated and we'll talk
a little bit about that at the very end. In terms of variance estimation,
that's a tough one to deal with. Okay, so even more, what I'd like
to do is control that sample size. I'm now calling it x instead of n. It's like y, it's a variable,
it depends on what sample I've got. It will provide administrative
convenience if I can control it, and it will also improve
the efficiency of my estimators, that ratio estimator gets more efficient,
it gets smaller variance for the same input of cost, if I can reduce
that variability in the nominator. Now, there's several ways to reduce
that variability in that nominator, one way would be to force it. Take exactly the same number
of elements per cluster. Instead of doing 2 hospitals and
taking one-tenth of the employees, I'm going to do 2 hospitals and
then take 50 employees in each. Maybe that's what you were
thinking about anyway. Jim, why are you doing this? Just take 50 and
then you're guaranteed the sample of 100. No matter which hospitals you get, you
take 15 each you've got your sample size. But there's a problem with that,
that we need to go over. And the solution to that problem
turns out to be this probability portion of the size, there it is
spelled out PPS sample selection. Okay, so
we're back to two hospitals now, but now we're going to do 50 employees
per hospital that are chosen. So, we're going to get
out sample size of 100, it wont vary depending on
which hospitals there are. But here's the problem we get, We do not
have equal chance selection of employees. Those employees who
are in small hospitals, their hospital has the same chance of
being selected as the big hospitals. But when we get there,
we take a very large fraction of them. So if the hospital only had 16 employees, their chance of coming in
the sample is almost one. It's 50 out of 60. Whereas, when we got that hospital 10,
that had over 1800 employees, their chances of being selected is much,
much smaller, 1 in 35, 1 in 36. So, five-sixths,1 in 36,
that's a big difference in sample rates. So, the probability of selection of
the small hospital employees is bigger. In other words, what we're going to
do is over represent on average across all possible samples
employees in small hospitals. Now if small hospital
employees have varying satisfying levels,
they have higher satisfaction levels. Then when I'm done Is built in a bias. I'm now going to over estimate
the satisfaction level by the nature of the sample inside. So, you can see my cake down there. We're not dividing the cake up equally. Well, yes we are. We're sort of taking
the population of 6,000 and dividing it up into groups of 50 that
we're going to use in our sample. But in fact we're taking same size
slices from cakes that vary in size. So, it's gotta be something
that we repair here, we can't live with this because we're
going to build in a bias potentially for any characteristics that's
related to hospital size. Just to illustrate the sampling rates
here, if we take the hospitals 2 of 12, 1/6 in the first line there,
in the first f, we're taking 1/6 and then we're taking 50 of 180 employees. Now if I multiply those things through and
just sort of rearrange thing to get that, so that I've got a one in the numerator
and a rate in the denominator. We're taking one of every 21,
22 hospital employees in that hospital. Whereas, hospital ten which has 10
times as many employees, it's 1 and 220, much smaller rate, that's
unequal probability of selection, and any time you see that eans that somebody's
getting sampled at a much higher rate, they're being over represented,
that was the term that I used. So, this variation in
rates can be remedied and we will talk about weighting in Unit 6. But right now,
if we don't do anything to compensate for it We're going to over represent
employees in small hospitals, on average there hospital has the same
chance as the large hospitals. And I'm going to end up with a bias. >> So we have a dilemma here, in terms of
sampling these unequal sized clusters. We can have variation in sample size. Or we can have variation
in our sampling rates. And have overrepresentation and
the need for waiting. Turns out there is a better
way to deal with this. In terms of changing how
we select the sample. And let's take a little break from
this discussion right now and talk about unequal sized clusters. And then, come back to this topic. Let's come back and then talk about
this alternative which involves varying our sampling rates at
the first stage as well as the second. So, join me for
the second part of lecture 5 next. Thank you.