Sampling people, records, and networks. In our discussion so far in the previous
three units, we've been talking about increasingly sophisticated
ways of selecting our samples. And we're now starting the fourth unit,
a unit on a topic that, in the traditional treatment,
would be labeled stratification. Stratification of your sampling
units as a process that can, for almost no investment of cost,
some investment of cost, but typically not a very large one,
give us more efficient samples. That is, samples that have smaller
standard errors than we can get by just randomization alone. And certainly by randomization and
clustering, as we've talked about before. So, welcome. Welcome to Unit 4 on Being more efficient,
the fourth of our six units. And here we're going to have a series of
six lectures about the basic ideas of stratified sampling. Stratification is the idea,
stratified sampling is the process. And in our discussions we're going to
talk about how to form groups. This is a grouping exercise, this is
one where we form the groups ourselves. And the ways of forming the groups
through an illustration, something about sampling variance,
the precision of our estimates. Having understood something about sampling
variance then, more on how we might do grouping to achieve greater
gains in efficiency. Gains in precision, smaller sampling variances, through
alternative ways of forming groups. Then how to allocate our
sample across groups. Two lectures there. As well as then, some issues concerning
waiting with respect to stratification. In this lecture,
the first of our six lectures on Unit 4, we're going to talk about forming groups. And there are four basic things
that we want to talk about here. The procedure,
the procedure of forming the groups. Using discreet variables, categorical variables would
be a more common term today. The selection that goes on, and then how
to combine things across groups to obtain estimates for
the original population we started with. For our purposes, let's go back to
an illustration we've had before where we have a list of individuals. A list of individuals, in this case, persons, who are members
of the faculty of a university. And we have in that list,
only a portion of which is shown here, the identification number, a sequence
number for each element in the file. An ID number,
in this case an eight-digit ID number. Their Division, their Sex, and their Rank. That’s what we know about them, and
in our past sampling of activity when we work with this particular
list of frame actually. We didn't use any of this background
information, all we did was use the labels, the sequence number
as a way to draw the sample. Here what we're going to do is use,
deliberately and specifically, the additional information that’s
available for every element in the frame. We're not going to let it go to waste. We'll call those additional variables,
such as the Division, the Sex, and the Rank, the auxiliary information
that we're going to use to form groups that we will create
before we make sample selection. But, let me describe the process, then. The stratification procedure, we'll
go through this in a series of steps, starts first with the finding
of the population, in this case, it's the population of faculty. Now I've altered the list a little bit
from what we looked at before just to give us more round numbers, even numbers, so that it makes
things come out a little bit better. So I've actually added
30 elements to the list. There's 400 faculty on our list now
rather than, I think, before it was 370. But that's the population. It's been redefined slightly, but
it's the faculty at this university. And we have a frame,
a list of the faculty members. We know that that frame may be deficient,
it may be missing some faculty who have joined recently and not gotten into
the list before it was produced for us. Or there may be some faculty who
are on the list who are no longer at the university, they've retired or
they're deceased. So there are some flaws in the frame. But that is our list. And on that list we have auxiliary
variables, things that we know about each element, each member of the frame
before the sample is drawn. And in our case we know a sequence number,
an ID, a rank, a sex, and a division. Now this corresponds to our diagram. If you recall our scheme, our seven steps to understanding
the statistical estimation process. The first two steps the finding
the population and the frame. Except what we're going to do is
take that frame and as shown here, we're going to divide into groups. Now, not like we did with clusters, where
there were lots and lots of clusters and then we sampled clusters
to go into the sample. Here what we're going to do is divide that
frame, implicitly dividing the population as well, but the frame into two groups,
three groups, or more. And from each of the groups,
we're going to draw a sample. All of the groups are going to be in our
sample, unlike with cluster sampling, where only a subset of the groups
are going to be in our sample. So the population definition
corresponds to step 1, the frame to step 2 in
our 7-step sequence. Well then, what do we going to do? We're going to divide the listed groups
based on the auxiliary variables. The division mean that
the variables that we're using for the subdivision, the auxiliary variables,
have to be discrete categories, or categorical if you will. They must be known for
every element on the list. If there are some elements on the list for which we don't know the value of a
particular auxiliary variable, we may need to assign them to a missing data category
and count that as one of the categories. Everything has to be grouped. Everything has to be in a group, and
everything must be in only one group. And then what we're going to do is count
up the number of elements in each group. And we're going to call that capital N,
because that refers back to the population, but capital N sub
something, capital N sub group. And a fairly typical subscript for
this kind of thing is the letter h, and I'll mention more about why h
a little bit later in the course. So here's our list, which has now been divided into
three groups on the basis of rank. The Assistant, the Associate,
and the Full professors. And we see in the last
column of this table, how many of each category there are. They sum to 400, and
this is our starting point. If we want, we could form three separate
files, rather than having it in one file. Or we could keep them all in one file and
only filter out the ones that we need for any given operation, but
it's the same basic idea. There's another piece of information
that we need for this, and that is, we not only need to
know the number in each group, we also need to know the fraction
of the population in each group. Do we need to know it? Well, maybe we don't need to know it, but
it's a very useful part of the process utilized in a lot of the statistical
notation that we're going to see. So we're going to follow
that particular approach. It's actually not needed, but
it's one way of dealing with this. So we also need the fraction of the
population that's in each of the groups. So going back to our list for
our three strata, Assistant, Associate and Full professors. With the counts, the capital N sub h,
there's also a capital W sub h. W sub h being the fraction
in each of the groups, so the Assistant professors are almost 30%
of the population of the frame, 28.75%. The Associate professors
are the smallest group, 18.75%. And the Full professors the are the
largest group, just slightly over half. That W sub h, W for weight. We're actually going to use
this as a weighing factor for combining things across
groups when we're done. It's not the same thing as the weight
that we're going to talk about at the very end of our six lectures here,
as well as in Unit 6. It's a different kind of weighting scheme,
but this is a weighting to combine the groups. And we're going to combine them on
the basis of their relative size. That is, we want to see in the end,
anything we come out with, that a little over of 50% of what we say about the
population comes from the Full professors. A little under 20% comes from
the Associate professors, and so on. All right, so, what we're going to do
then, now that we've formed the groups. We know how large they are,
we have their relative sizes, we're going to draw
a sample from each group. Looking all the way down to
the third bullet from the bottom. Draw a sample from each group,
lowercase n sub h. This is step 3 in our 7-step process,
and we're going to keep track in this particular case not only of that sample
size, but also the sampling rates. These will be important for
us for estimation as well. Their sampling rates or
their sampling fractions, we'll use both terms interchangeably. The sampling rate,
perhaps is a little bit more descriptive. Its lowercase n sub h, the number that
are in the stratum that are in the sample, divided by capital N sub h,
the number that are in the population or the frame, that are in the strata. And there will be three of those
in our particular case, an f one, an f two and an f three. Three different sampling fractions,
three different sampling rates. So in our particular case I've
allocated the sample of about 80. We're doing a 20% sample,
we're taking 80 from the 400, one in five. And I've made the decision to allocate
the sample the same way across each of the strata as it is for
the total population, the total frame. In this case,
20% Of the first Stratum is 23. 23 of the 115 would be in the sample. For the second Stratum, 15 of the 75,
again 20% would be in the sample. And for the third stratum, 42, or
20% of 210 would be in the sample. So this is another part of the process. We have to decide how many
in each of the strata, and the sampling rates help us keep
track of what we're doing. In this case, we see we've got
a very interesting design. This would be an EPSEM design. If you recall that term,
equal probability of selection method. We have the same sampling
rate in each of the strata. We're also going to refer to this
when we talk about allocations as the proportionate allocation. We'll come back to that,
let's not dwell on that right now, but this is just the illustration. What we're then going to do is take
our sample and sort of our step 4, remember our step 4 was one of estimation. But there are going to be two steps
to the estimation process here. What we're going to do is calculate
a mean for each of the groups. We draw our sample of 23 from the
assistant professors, we obtain our data, and perhaps what we're
doing is measuring income. We're asking them, what was your total
earnings from the university last year? Not your family earnings,
not the earnings from all sources, just, how much did you
earn from the university? Because our record keeping system
may not show that exactly. Sometimes it comes from multiple sources,
we just want to collect that information. And so here are the data for the three
groups, for assistant, associate, and full professors. We see that the mean amount that they
reported increases as the rank increases, and that's not unexpected. The associate,
full professors have been there longer, they also have accumulated merit. For their sake of their promotion,
that merit has led to increases in salary. And so we see differences across
these groups, at least in the sample. Here's that data,
just to reinforce it now. This is everything together. We keep squeezing things
in from the right. The number in the strata, capital N sub h,
the fraction in each of the strata, capital W sub h. The sample size in each of the strata,
lowercase n sub h. The sampling fraction in
each of the strata, 0.2. And by the way, W sub h and f sub h,
we can see them both there, they're not the same thing are they? They're both fractions. The first one is the fraction of
the population, capital W sub h, in each of the strata. The second one, f sub h, is the fraction
of the Stratum that is in the sample. And those are two different things we're
going to have to keep track of, and it will be confusing at times as we
work with this kind of a design. Okay, part B is then to
take that result and combine them to get an estimate,
let's say in our case of a mean. What we want to do is take the means for
each of the groups and combine them. And we're going to combine them by
the relative sizes of the groups, the capital W sub h. So we have a formula here in which we're
saying, let's take the mean from group 1, $50, multiply it by its fraction,
0.2875 as I recall from that group. We're going to multiply those two
together, and then add to that the $70 for the second group,
times its fraction, 0.1875. And then finally,
add to that now accumulating sum, the third mean, but
multiplied by its fraction, 0.525. That will be our estimate of the mean. And what we're doing is taking
the separate groups and giving them a relative contribution
to the overall estimate that is reflected in terms of the population
distribution across the strata. So in this particular case,
if we do the calculation, we see that we end up with
a mean of about 74,000. These are in thousands of dollars, I'm
sorry, I should have said that earlier. $74,750 is our mean. Which is very close to the actual
population mean, in this particular case. So this is our average, this is our estimate,
it's obtained through this process. Now, of course, this is only step 4. We had steps 5,
imagining the sampling distribution. Step 6, calculating a standard error
from that sampling distribution. And step 7,
looking at a confidence interval. So we're not quite done with this process
even though we've pretty well filled out our table now. And have, in the very bottom
right hand corner cell for the total, the estimate of the population
mean on the basis of our sample. Now this particular sample
has a very nice property from the credibility point of view. This has more credibility
than a simple random sample, from the point of view
that we have controlled, in our sample, the distribution
across three important groups. We know those groups differ in salary, we would have anticipated
this from the beginning. But now, what we've done
is deliberately control it. So that our sample looks
like the population, with respect to three important
categories of our population, where we think that that
salary rate would vary. We're not allowing that to just fluctuate
by chance in simple random sampling. A simple random sample of size 80 could
have been only Assistant professors. It could have been only Full professors. Not only Associate professors,
because there's fewer than 80 of them. But there are some peculiar
distributions across these three groups that are possible in
simple random sampling, not likely, but possible, that we have eliminated. We are only looking at sample designs that the sample follows
the population distribution. This is what some people would think of, we've used the term
representative sampling before. This is probably as close to
representative sampling as we're going to get with the techniques we're using. But we're not calling it that, we're calling is stratified random
sampling with proportionate allocation. And now you see what that
proportionate allocation means, the sample distribution looks like
the population distribution because we're using the same sampling
rates across the groups. Okay, so let's turn to those last
two steps, two more steps to go, the standard error and the confidence
interval in terms of computation. But now, we're poised to imagine all
possible stratified random samples that have exactly the same characteristics
as those that we just saw. Imagine all possible samples
that had three groups, and from those three groups we drew exactly
the same sample sizes that we were talking about in the previous displays. What then happens to our sampling
variance in something like this? And let's turn to that discussion in
our next lecture as we look at sampling variance, in the context of being more
efficient in stratified sampling. Thank you.