Welcome again to our unit
on stratified sampling. Or, be more efficient in our sample
selection as we continue to talk about sampling people, records and networks. And in our first two lectures, we're
now on our third lecture on grouping, a little more on grouping. We talked about forming
groups in lecture one, but now we're talking about some additional
features of grouping that we ought to be thinking about now that we've
looked at sampling variance a little bit. But we're going to, in this particular
case, talk about four things. We're going to talk about how
to use multiple variables in the grouping process,
that's certainly possible and advisable. Give a little more advice
on forming the strata, how we should pick out variables
to use as stratifiers. A side note on multipurpose design, in the
middle of which we're also going to talk something about domains and
have one particular application. So there's some terminology that I've
just introduce there that we will talk about as we move into
those latter two sections. So first of all, it is possible to use more than one
variable in the stratification. We have more than one, we had rank,
we also have sex and division. We can use those in our stratification
much in the way we would form a table, a cross tab, a cross tabulation of rank
by sex, in order to form our groups. So instead of having three groups based
on rank only, we can have six groups, in which we have first all of the female
faculty, assistant, associate, and full. And then all of the male faculty,
assistant, associate, and full, or however you want to mix them, but
those six groups as our strata. Now, we can see here, we've just
gone ahead and done the allocation. And we show the capital N sub h for each, the number in each of the groups,
summing to our frame size, population size of 400, and
the W sub h for each of these, as well. Now, why would we introduce this? Well because, we saw that one
of the things we were getting was sampling variances where we were
computing variances within each group and then combining them. What we want to do then, is to find
ways that when we form the groups, we decrease the variance
as much as possible. We want to make the internal
characteristic of the group as homogeneous as possible. That way, those sampling variances
within a group are smaller, and when we combine them,
we get even more gains in precision. So I'm talking here about the same
thing we did for cluster sampling, homogeneity within the groups. Homogeneity within the groups creates
heterogeneity between the groups. So if what I can do by
adding another variable is get even more variation in
the mean salary across the groups, I'm going to get greater
homogeneity within the groups. And I'm going to smaller sampling
variance, same sample size, smaller sampling variance by
allocating across more groups and smaller design effects,
even more gains in precision. We won't go through and
do that calculation here, but you can imagine what it is. This is a bit like in linear regression, in which we have regressing an outcome
variable on multiple predictors. Why do we have multiple predictors? Because each of them contributes to
explaining variation in the outcome variable, that's what we're doing here. The outcome variable is income,
that's what we're sampling. And each of these factors are like
predictors in the model, and each explain more and more that
variation and we keep adding them in. So more variables is better, more
variables is better than more categories, but that's a little beyond
the scope of what we're able to do. We also need to then do the sample size or
the allocation across each of the groups. The same thing, we won't use the same
allocation, we're now going to use an allocation that is based on the
proportionate distribution we see here. And if anything,
it will mimic what we did before. It will sum to what we did before, but
now we're going to have more groups. Let's suppose that again we're continuing
to do a sample of 20% of the elements, 80 of the 400. And we allocate the sample of 80 across the groups as
shown here in the last column. That allocation, if you go through,
is 20% in each case. And so if you look at stratum one,
female assistant professors, and there are 40 of them,
one-fifth of them, 20%, is 8. When we do female associated professors, 25 of them,
one-fifth of them is 5, and so on. So we're doing the same thing,
that proportional allocation, just now with more groups. But in general then,
how should we form the strata? What we're doing is, the best advice
we can come up with is to say look for things that make the groups
internally homogenous. Let me turn that the other way. Let's try and make them as different as
possible, as we go across the groups. Have big differences between
the means of the strata, sometimes that's an easier
way to think about it. Will there be bigger
differences between males and females than if we don't use them. Yes, we know the salaries for
females are lower than they are for males, whatever the reasons. In this case,
there's actually some structural element, because female faculty, there's a large
share of them who are in certain areas, such as nursing, where they're
disproportionately represented there and the salaries are lower there. So there's some structural elements as
well as some other kinds of things going on, possibly with respect
to discrimination. But regardless, our aim is to
capitalize on that underlying social structural phenomena as much as possible. And look for things that
are going to give us groups that have as big a difference
between the groups as possible. But that's essentially what we're doing in
linear regression, as I mentioned before. Another way to say this is that we're
seeking to explain as much of the variance in the outcome variable or
variables as possible. Now here we've got one outcome
that we're looking at, income, but we may have more to consider. So what we're doing is adding to the
auxiliary variable set and the number of strata by using more and more auxiliary
variables in cross classifications. By the way, that cross classifications
doesn't have to be done uniformly, we could collapse some of the groups
if they're really small and not have symmetry. So suppose in our allocation one of those
groups, the female associate professors, was so small that we couldn't
really sustain a sample with it. We might very well collapse associate and
full professors together for females, so that we have five
groups in the end, three for the male professors,
but two for the female. This is not to say that females don't
deserve as many strata as the male, it has to do with the sizes of the groups. And that's going to be determined by
population distribution across those auxiliary variables we're using for
stratification. Now just as an aside, this business
about these auxiliary variables, where are we going to get them? Where are we going to get the background
information we need to form these? A lot of this could come from census or
administrative reports or other surveys. Our understanding, our knowledge about
how those auxiliary variables relate to the outcome variables, which we don't
have, may come from other sources. It may come from other surveys, where
we've got a good understanding about how salary relates to rank and to sex, and
to their division, which determines the differences between people who are in
engineering and those who are in nursing. And so in those particular cases, we're
going to use that kind of information, our substantive understanding
of what's going on, in order to choose among those variables. We may also have past surveys in which we
can calculate what differences there are, what percent of the variance is being
explained by different factors. Different auxiliary variables, in order
to decide which of them are the most important to explain most of the variance, and the ones that we want to
use in our stratification. So shown on the lower left,
it's this idea of the stratification, these differences between the group. Homogeneous within, differences between, we want to capitalize on these auxiliary
variables to create that kind of stratification that is as stark and
sharp a contrast as possible. But there's a corresponding part of this,
and that has to do with multipurpose surveys. And that is, I'm talking about multiple x
variables in a regression model, multiple right hand side variables, multiple
auxiliary variables informing the strata. But we also have to realize that in these
surveys, we don't just measure one thing. Very few of the surveys
that are being done, whether it's in government context or
in private industry or in academic settings, very few of them
deal with just one variable as an outcome. They have many kinds of
things that they measure. So, for example, we might have been doing
this particular survey among faculty and records, but we might be doing
a much larger household survey. Households being collections of people in
a country, and I've picked out a country in the Persian Gulf, some of you
may need to look this up, Qatar. And in this particular country, maybe
we're doing a national survey looking at such things as assets, building ownership,
use of expatriate labor, expenditures on various kinds of food and
housing and so on, income, health, healthcare use, psychological well-being,
social integration. A host of factors, some of which we're
doing because this is our one chance to do it, lets get the data and
do a multipurpose survey. We're going to do health, but by the way, we better bring in
the income items as well. We're going to do social and psychological
well-being, because we think they're related to health, and so we're going to
include those as part of our survey. And so we have many variables
in that same survey. The stratification then
becomes more complicated. But it turns out that that
scheme we just looked at, that proportionately allocated
stratified sampling scheme, gives us gains in precision for almost all
the variables in a multipurpose survey. It turns out to be a very good way
to approach the stratification. Not the only way, but
it is a good starting strategy for thinking about these kinds
of things as we go along. There's another aspect to this. If we're talking about
dividing these up into groups, maybe I also want estimates for
each of the groups. Sub-populations for
which separate estimates are required, maybe we want a separate estimate for
each the ranks. That means that we're going to have to
have adequate sample sizes in each of them to make this work. More often, this comes up in
the context of geographic subdivisions. And I picked one that I'm particularly
fond of, the University of Michigan, where I work, I live in the State of Michigan,
is very near the country of Canada. As a matter of fact, it's just 60
kilometers down the road, it's east of us. We're actually a little bit north of
the southernmost portion of Canada here. Canada is divided into ten provinces and
this is important. Because what provinces represent
are not just political divisions, they also represent important divisions
within the governmental system. And they have a survey that
they estimate unemployment for the entire country, the unemployment rate. This is something that many countries
do as a measure of the well-being of their population, they measure
it on a regular basis every month. And in their particular survey, they're
making that measuring of well-being based on a sample of let's say 30,000
households, with probably 75,000 people who are interviewed in those households,
in which they ask about unemployment. And so,
that's the overall goal of the survey. We're going to divide our
sample up into provinces, because we think the unemployment
rate's different across the provinces, matter of fact, they know that they do. Much higher unemployment in the, what
they're called the maritime provinces on the Atlantic coast, where they have
traditionally relied on fishing and other kinds of industries that are less
stable in terms of the economy. And so unemployment rates tend to be
higher, as opposed to some of the more centrally located provinces that
are more dependent on manufacturing and other kinds of areas and
economic development areas. And so what they do in their sample is, if
they distributed the sample proportionate, like we've talked about, they would have actually very small
sample sizes in the maritime provinces, which are geographically small and
have small populations. Their W sub h's are quite small. That means that they wouldn't have large
enough samples in the maritime provinces to produce separate estimates for
each of the provinces, a domain estimate. And so what they actually do is allocate
the sample equally across the provinces, there are ten provinces. Every province gets the same sample size,
every province gets 3,000 households. Even the smallest gets 3,000 households,
so that they get equally precise estimates. And if you focus on domains of study, this is a feature of stratification
that we have to keep in mind. We could also do this for socio-demographic characteristics,
age groups, occupation, income, education. But most often we see this kind of thing
with respect to geographic subdivisions, stratify by those, because we
want separate estimates by them. But then it begs the question, how large is the sample going to be in
each of them if we do it proportionally, and if we don't do it proportionally,
how far can we push it? Let's come back to that, we talk a little
bit more about allocations in the end. Okay, so when we have multiple
potential stratifying variables, just to wrap up here, come back to
our issues about stratification, how do we decide which one to choose? We're going to find the one that has
the most variation in group size, that explains the most
variation in the outcome. Has the most variation in
the means across the groups, but also explains the most
variance across those groups. The second consideration is how large
should the strata sizes be, and that's going to have an impact
on what we're doing as well. And then if we're able to use only one or
a subset of those, we're going to have the ones that have
the bigger differences in income, are there such bigger
differences in what we're doing? So those are the kinds of considerations
that we're putting into thinking about grouping now. We're being more and more sophisticated
now that we understand more and more about how stratification works and
what it can actually do for us. We need to talk about
that allocation problem. I want to come back to that example,
concerning Canada, and talk a little more about that allocation
for domain estimation purposes, before we go on and talk about a few
other topics in stratified sampling. So that concludes our lecture three
on grouping, more about grouping. We're understanding more and more about
how these groups ought to be formed as we understand more and
more about stratification. What we need to talk about as well,
the allocation problem, and that will be the next two lectures. The next lecture, lecture four,
will be on basics of allocation and then lecture five on more
sophisticated kinds of allocation. And it's that combination of allocation
and grouping that will teach us the most about how to use stratified sampling the
most effectively in being more efficient. Please join me then for
lecture four next, thank you.