Welcome, once again, to our continuing
series of lectures about stratified sampling, as we're talking about
sampling people, records, and networks. Our fourth lecture, in this series, we're
going to talk about sample allocation. Actually, we're going to talk about
sample allocation in this lecture and the next one. We're going to do one particular
allocation, actually the one we've already looked at, proportion allocation,
to understand some of its properties. And then we will alter
it in the next lecture. With respect to proportion allocation, we're just going to talk about
allocations in general, then, and the proportion of allocation,
before we wrap this particular lecture up. Now the stratified sampling approach has,
as we've seen, some advantages. I mentioned one about credibility. It just makes more sense. It's more believable to people to
say that when I drew my sample, I made sure that I had
the right distribution. Across the frame, the population, that it
got replicated in the sample, as well. That's more acceptable, more credible. But we've also seen how we
can get gains in precision, depending on the allocation, though, and that's part of what we're doing in
these two lectures on allocations. There's also advantages here. We've talked about guaranteed
representation of important domains. And there are some things about
flexibility that we'll see here in allocations and administrative
convenience that we can take advantage of. But these, in order to understand these
potential benefits of stratified sampling, depend on understanding something
about the allocation, as well. We've been looking at a problem in
which we have a basic sample size, in our illustration with 400 faculty,
we were drawing a sample of 80, and we chose a particular allocation,
but many allocations are possible. Many different sampling fractions of
sebetra are possible across those stratum. So for example, for our six stratum,
as shown in the last line on this display, the allocations could have
been take one from stratum 1, one from stratum 2, one from stratum 3,
one from stratum 4, one from stratum 5, and 75,
the balance, from stratum 6. Or we could have taken two from stratum 1,
and one from each of the stratum 2, 3, 4, and 5, and
then the remaining 74 from stratum 6. And so on. There's lots and
lots of possible allocations there. It turns out that some of these
allocations can be beneficial, and some can be harmful to
our overall estimates. Some can be beneficial when we
want to do domain estimation. Some can be beneficial when we
want to combine a cross estimate of these estimates. And the allocation that we did was
related to the drawing in the lower left. This is sort of a population-sized distribution of the states
in the United States. California is a large share
of the US population, 10% among the 50 states, and
Florida and New York are fairly large, as is Texas, in terms of their
relative population sizes. And others are very tiny,
they become very small on that map. As that population size varies,
which it will, and it's outside of our control,
it's something that's going to be there with respect to the auxiliary
data that we have available. We can take advantage of that in
order to get gains and precisions. One way to do that, that we've already seen, was to use
the allocation that we already did. The one that was
the proportionate distribution. This particular distribution,
we had a reason for using. And that was because we actually
got a gain in precision. Taking the same percent or fraction of the
elements in each of the six stratum, and we have a nice property to it too. That distribution, 8, 5, 4, 15,
10, 38, across the six stratum, also is achieved by taking the same
sampling fraction in each of the stratum. Well that seems straightforward. It has nice properties with
respect to the sample design. You're making the sample
designers very happy. But does that have any other payoff for
us? Well actually we saw that this kind of
thing has a benefit that goes beyond it. It gives us a balance then between
the sample and the stratum. That is when we draw the sample in such
a way that we have the same sampling fraction, lower case f sub h, lower case m sub h over M sub h,
is the same as lower case f, the overall rate, lower case n over N,
that's the technical detail of this. When that kind of thing happens,
there's something else that happens, that goes with this. It generates a distribution in
the sample that is across the stratum, the same as the distribution in
the population for the frame. For example, for our stratum 1, where in
the population there were 40 of the 400, or a W sub h of 0.1. 10% of the population resides, or
is in that particular stratum. When we sampled at the same
rate in stratum 1, as we did overall, 80 from 400 is overall. 0.2, 20%,
when we applied that rate of 0.2, we got 10% of our sample,
eight from that particular stratum. Now the sample distribution looks
like the population distribution. So by being epsom, equal chance, we happen to also be proportionate, and
this is where that term comes from. Now I know this is confusing, I want to
come back to the use of proportionate in cluster sampling in just a second. But here what we're talking about is
the proportions we see in the population are replicated in terms of the proportions
we see in the sample across the stratum, proportionately allocated. Now, we used this term before with cluster sampling when we
had unequal sized clusters. In there, we were sampling the clusters, with probabilities that were
proportionate to their size. Same idea, but applied in a different way. So, this term proportionate comes
up in several different ways in the sampling context. And it's a broad label of things. For our purposes,
when you hear proportionally allocated stratified sampling,
it's the kind we've just been doing. The same sampling rates
in each of the stratum, the sample distribution looks
like the population distribution. So when we make the sample look
like the population, the W sub h, N sub h over N is the same as
the sample fraction, n sub h over n. And that is the same thing,
than just to repeat, as having the sampling fraction be
the same in all pf the stratum, the overall sampling faction is
replicated across each of the stratum. When we have either one of these,
but if I have one, I have the other,
that's where I get gains in precision. This kind of design will give us
design effects less than one for our outcome variables. Now, I'm going to make a very
strong statement here, which is actually not true in all cases. But I want you to remember it. So for teaching purposes,
if we do proportionate and allocations, and we do multipurpose
design, remember now proportion and allocation could use one or more
auxiliary variables to form groups, and then allocate the sample proportionally
across them by drawing an absent sample. If we do that,
when doing multipurpose sampling, we're going to get design effects
less than one for all the variables. Now it's too strong of a statement. It's actually not true, but
it's a good way to think about it. We're going to get some gains of precision
for almost all the variables in our study, and that's a very powerful tool. We won't find other allocations that
do that for us in the same way. We'll see allocations that can
beat stratified random sampling, proportionately allocated,
for one variable, but not necessarily for all of the variables,
or nearly all of them. Well, let's turn to talking about
some of those other allocations, now that we understand a base allocation. Remember, I did this for
stratified random sampling. Stratified random sampling was there
in the beginning because it was a basis against which we could compare the others. Proportionate allocation is very
useful in its own right, but it's also a basis for
comparing other allocations, too. Let's turn to that in lecture five for
unit four next. Thank you.