We've seen in our last lectures how
allocation can play a role in a number of things with respect to
our stratified samples. And in this lecture on Sampling People,
Records, and Networks in our unit four. We're going to be looking at in stratified
sampling some other allocations and seeing what their properties are. In doing this,
we're going to talk about three things. We're going to talk about
an equal sample size allocation. About domain estimation, which often goes hand in hand with
equal sample size allocation. And then the effect on precision
of some other allocations. Let's start though by looking at another
allocation besides the one we looked at in our last lecture which was
the proportionate allocation. But one that alters that to gives
us about the same number of sample elements in each of the strata. Sort of an approximately equal to
distribution in what we did before. So let's look at our six strata formed
in our population of 400 faculty. Grouping them by sex, and then by rank,
assistant, associate, and full professor. And an alternative allocation
the gives us roughly the same number. The problem is that in a sample of size
80, 80 is not divisible equally by six. And so what we're going to do in this
allocation is approximately equal to. If we could we would have
exactly the same number. But I guess I blew it by not
having a sample size that was an even multiple of six. But here we can see what
the allocation looks like. In that last column we've got 13 or
14 in each of the groups. And the sum of those is still 80. And that's the key part of what
we're attempting to do here. We are in terms of the individual
groups now having small sample sizes in each of the groups. We probably would not want to form
separate estimates in each of these groups. But there's an interesting property, we do
have almost the same number of assistant, associate, and full professors. Equal numbers there. Compared to the proportionate
allocation where we had 23, 15, and 38, now we've got 27, 27,
26 across those three groups. All right, well,
that's beneficial because now we've got somewhat larger sample sizes. And if we wanted to compute separate
estimates for each of those rank levels, we've got about the same number. And our precision should be about
the same if our standard deviations, our variances for
our income are about the same. Now they won't be. But nonetheless this is
a good allocation for producing separate estimates for
each of those rank groups. It's also going to give us 40 females and
40 males. Little better sample sizes for males and
females, half of our sample female, half of our sample male. Now that's not necessarily because
the population distribution is that way. We have actually much smaller than half. Only about 20% of the population
happens to be female, but we're going to force it
to be 50% in our sample. We're departing a long way away
from the proportionate allocation. Recall from the proportionate allocation,
well actually you didn't see this. But if we go back and add these up,
there are 17 females and 63 males in that allocation. About 20% are female. And so in that proportionate allocation we
wouldn't have enough females to compute a separate estimate. If what we wanted to do was produce
an estimate for females and males that were equal quality,
equally precise. So by going with this disproportionate
allocation, right there, the proportionate allocation,
there's only one. But it gives us a distribution
that is useful for combining things across this strata. But this disproportionate allocation, unequal allocation across the strata
in terms of sample sizes. It has better properties for
other purposes. For example, as I've mentioned, we get
better estimates for small sized groups. We've got only 17 females in the
proportionate allocation, now we have 40. We're going to get more precision for the
females, worse precision for the males, but still the same precision as for
the females. That, by the way, gives us,
also, good sample sizes, a good sample size allocation for
comparing the different sized groups. As long as the standard deviations, those element variances within each
of the groups, are about the same. The equal sample size allocation is
the best one for when we do comparisons. Getting a small an estimate of
the variance of the difference. Right, that's what a comparison is. What's the mean salary for females,
what's the mean salary for males, what's the difference between them? To get the smallest variance of
the difference in equal allocation will, provided we have equal standard
deviations among the groups, give us the best smallest variance
outcome for a given allocation. However when we do this if I also still
want to combine the data I have a problem. If I want to combine the data
across assistant, associate and full professors, I have a problem. I have a weighting problem. I'm going to have to
resort to the capital Wh. Or as we will see when we talk
about weighting at the very end, our last lesson here, a different
way of expressing those weights. I'm going to have to weight
the elements in a different way. Because I have an over representation
now of assistant professors, and associate professors. And an under representation
of full professors. I have an over-representation
of females and an under-representation of
males in that equal allocation. And I'm going to need to correct that
when putting things back together. Again, coming back to Canada. Remember what I said about how in
Canada with the ten provinces, and in their labor force survey. They take the provinces and allocate to them the same sample
size in each of the groups. Including those small maritime
provinces out on the right-hand coast, on the Atlantic Coast. Now by doing that, they're ignoring
the population distribution, in terms of the allocation of the sample. Here it is,
38% of the population of the country, a third of the population
lives in one province. That's Ontario, that's the one that's
closest to us here in Michigan. But there's another quarter
of the population in Quebec. And so on, there are several provinces
that have more than their share of 10%. And then there are four
of them that have that. And the other six provinces
all have much smaller shares. Including one, Prince Edward Island, that has a very small share
of the total population. Yet the sample allocation is like a pie. It's ten equal size slices of this thing. And that looks very different. And in order to take that pie that's
equally divided into ten slices. And get results from each of those slices
and then put it together to look like this distribution, we're going to
have to do something. We're going to have to take the values for people who are in Ontario who
are underrepresented in that sample. 3,000 households is 10%
not 38% of the total. We're going to have to increase their
contribution by a factor of 3 to 4 in order to get back to
the population distribution. And that kind of reallocation is necessary
if we want to achieve two purposes. Number one, get the best allocations for
comparisons. Or in the Canadian context what
they're actually doing is providing equally precise estimates for
every one of the strata. Because they have a confederation
that is very important to them. That all the provinces have
the same contribution or benefit, if you will, the size of the sample
across these national studies. So they have a political reason for doing
this, as well as a statistical reason. But when they've got
all done computing and providing estimates for Ontario and
Quebec and Prince Edward Island. They also produce a national estimate. They put them back together, and
they do that by a weighting. All right, so,
now we've got two allocations, right? We've got the proportionate, which we
understand a little bit better and understand some of its benefits. It's good for
combining things across groups. And we have the equal
sample size allocation. In which, it's better for
providing domain estimates, separate estimates for
each of the provinces. Or for comparing the provinces,
in terms of the outcome, in that case, unemployment rate. But, in order to put things back together, we have to weight them, so
two different purposes. We're going to have to sometimes
make a compromise in the allocation. We couldn't do this for a country like
the United States that has 50 states. It's much too many for
us to do this kind of thing, and the sample sizes in each
would be fairly small anyway. So there are different things that are
done in those cases that's kind of a blend of proportionate and equal. There are other allocations
that we can use. There's one that's called
an optimum allocation, or a minimum variance allocation. Remember we ran into minimum variance
before when we talked about cluster sample sizes. The number of elements we're
going to take per cluster. And we talked about a way to choose
that sub sample size that would minimize the variance of the mean. Well, there's a similar kind of
thing that can be done here. Among all those possible allocations,
the proportionate, the equal sample size, and all the other ones that are in
between or beyond those two. Which of those will give
us the smallest variance? Now, this is beyond
the purposes of this course. It requires, in terms of that allocation
to look at the size of the strata and the variability within the strata. And sometimes even the cost
within the strata. Sometimes the cost may vary. Maybe it's much cheaper to do the sample
selection in one province than another. All of those things factoring together
will lead to this minimum variance allocation. But it's really as I say beyond the scope
of this course to deal with it. Just know that it's out there and know that it arises primarily in
the study of a single variable. Multipurpose allocation,
this is not good for it, because the minimum variance
allocation is variable specific. There's a minimum variance allocation for
each variable, and it may differ across the variables. In that case, what are we going to use
when we have to do a multipurpose study? Sometimes we may do the minimum
variance allocation for one variable because it's so
much more important than all the others. We'll still measure other variables. But we know that we're not going to
get as precise a set of estimates for the other variables as we do for that one. But that kind of thing
comes up more often. When dealing with variables that have
skewed distributions, such as income, or expenditures, or wealth. There's where you can get
real gains in precision. But the minimum variance
allocation doesn't arise often. In sociological and psychological studies,
public health, medicine, other sciences. It really works best in economics and
finance, those kinds of areas where you've got
some extremes in your distributions. Let's consider just one more pass through
this, just to fix these ideas in our mind. Let's consider a simpler
example to see how allocation can affect sampling variance,
one more time before we wrap up. And go on to our last lecture. In particular,
suppose that we had this distribution. I'm going to go back to Qatar. I know I've introduced Qatar before. But it has a very interesting
set of properties. In its population distribution, there is a very large share of
the population that are expatriate. They are not native to the population. There are white and blue collar
expatriates there who are working. And let's just suppose, this is a little bit of a departure
from the actual distribution. Suppose there are a million
people in Qatar. Actually there are more
than 2 million there. But a million people and 20% of them
are native Qataris, the other 80%, 800,000 of them are white or
blue collar expatriates. And we happen to see distributions
we know from past data for a characteristic we're measuring,
say income. That we've got very different
variances between the strata. You'll notice it in row two there. The S squared, the overall S squared,
and then the S1 squared, S2 squared for each of the two strata are very different. And the means are very different. Here's a good case for
doing stratified sampling. We know the means are different. A proportionate allocation ought
to get us gains in precision. So will other allocations, potentially. So why don't we do the following exercise? Rather than trying to come up with
a minimum variance allocation by some formula, which exists. Suppose we just start with
our proportionate allocation. We're going to do a sample of 1,200. 1,200 from the 1 million that are there. And we're going to do it proportionately. 20% of our sample of 1,200
should come from stratum 1. 20% of 1,200 is 240. And the remainder from stratum 2. What will the variance of the mean be? Well, there's our formula that we have for
the variance of the mean. Where we take the square of the fraction
of the population in the group. Times 1 minus the sampling
fraction divided by the sample size nh
times the sh squared. And we have those elements and at least
approximately in this case because the sampling fractions are fairly small. 1200 from a million is so small. We can just round it. We're not going to worry about
it in this particular case. It just complicates the calculation. But here let's just
take the essence of it. Wh squared, sh squared divided by nh for
each of the two strata. W1 squared S1 squared over n1, W2 squared
S2 squared over n2 for stratum two. And put in the numbers and
do the calculation, and we see we get a variance of the mean, in
this particular case, of about 1300, 1333. Now that's the proportionate allocation. We expect to get gains in precision,
how large? Well, it depends on our computation,
what happens for simple random samples of the same size. Here's the simple random sampling
variance for the same data. Now again, I've put in the finite
population correction here in the middle. But we're going to ignore it, we're
going to round it to 1 essentially and our variance now comes out to be 1500. That is when we look at the design effect. The variance of the given design
relative to the variance of the simple random sample of the same size. This design effect turns out to be 0.89. We got an 11% gain in precision by the simple expedient of
proportionate allocation. But there are other allocations out there. It may be that we think, whoa, what would
happen if I under-allocate to the one group and over-allocate to the other? I'm going to do smaller sample
to the native Qataris and more to the expatriates. What would happen to our variances? And then we'll go the other way. We'll look and see what happens
if we start shifting sample not away from the stratum one but
into stratum one from stratum two. So allocation one goes to the direction
of putting more sample into the expatriate part of the population. Example two is an allocation that we've
already looked at, the proportionate. And 3, 4, 5, and 6 are putting more and
more into that native Qatari group, including the equal sample size
allocation in allocation 4. All right, so for the first one,
what do we actually get? Well, we get a variance of 2,133. And we get a design effect of 1.45,
we are losing precision. Now this is interesting,
with stratified sampling we don't necessarily only get
gains in precision, we can lose. So some of these are not good for us. Depending on what's going on with
respect to the distribution of the population sizes. And the standard deviations or
element variances across the strata. Now, we already know that we got gains
in precision for the proportion. So there we can see, we're not only
doing better than the first allocation. But we're actually doing better
than simple random sampling. We're going in the right direction. Let's take more and more of the sample
away from the expatriates and put it into the Qatari population. Can we get even better variances? So for allocation three,
we see that we get a gain again of 1200. Our sampling variance again is down
to 1200 and our design effect is 0.8. Gee we're doing even better than
the proportionate allocation. That one, 400 and 800 in allocation 3,
is actually the optimum. It's the minimum variance allocation. If we were to put in all
possible combinations, that's the one that gives
us the smallest variance. That's what we were referring
to earlier in this lecture. But then if we keep pushing it,
now we keep pushing it, now we have equal number in design for
equal numbers in the two strata. We see that our variances all
of sudden start bumping back up. This is the combined. It's a good allocation for
comparing the two groups, but our design effect is back up to 0.89. It's still better than
simple random sampling. If we push it even further, the opposite
of our proportionate allocation in design five, we see that we
actually get the worst case. We get a doubling of variance. It looks like a cluster sample. But the allocation drives then this design
effect, and that's worth keeping in mind. These allocations, there are many of them. Proportionate gives us gains in precision
uniformly across our variables. The equal allocation will
give us good properties for comparisons, sometimes gains in precision,
sometimes not. There is one that is best,
the optimum allocation. In this case, we've seen what it is. And so we see that there's
a variety of things that we can do. When we have a decision to make about
how to allocate our sample across these strata. And it will depend on our purposes. With these allocations that
we've been looking at, there is a weighting that's being done,
a weighting at the stratum level. We're going to combine the stratum
estimates to compute our overall result. That stratum level weighting is fine for
us to think about conceptually. But it's not what happens when we use
statistical software to analyze these stratified random samples. The statistical software that we use
actually weights at the element level. So what we're going to do in out last
lecture is look at how that stratum level weighting can be converted into
an element level weighting. So that we can analyze these stratified
samples using available software, which doesn't do what we've
been talking about up till now. So let's look at that in our
last lecture in unit four on stratified sampling, thank you.