One of the things that I get asked about
most often with respect to surveys and survey sampling, especially by people
who analyze surveys, is about weights. And as long as we're talking about
stratified random sampling and the idea of weights that are used
to combine results across strata, I thought it might be useful to also
talk about how that can be converted and considered in terms of
weights at an element level. And the reason this comes up is because
that kind of weighting at the element level to combine our results across
strata is how software handles it. And we should be prepared for that. The software is not going to
do what we've just described. It won't even compute the variances
the way we would describe. But we want to begin to get something
of an introduction to the ideas behind weighting at the element level as we're
talking about stratified sampling. So let's consider then
what we mentioned before, that the weighting,
the sample is necessary. What we're going to do is compare or combine across groups to get back to
conclusions about the total population. Recall that some of our distributions or allocations, we had
cases where we allocated much more of the sample to a group than
its proportionate size in the population. And we talked about how well the weights,
you know those W sub Hs, would correct for that when we put things back together. And that would be great if that's
the way that the software expected the data to come, but it doesn't. And it's because we can convert that
into another form, into a second way of doing the weighting, that we need
to consider this a little bit. So in practice, when we're using statistical software,
it's done using only one of the two ways. Not the population weighting,
and the W sub Hs, but actually an element level weighting. And you see in the lower left a formula
that deals with the weighted mean. We're going to come back to
the weighted mean as we look at other kinds of weighting problems
that come up in Unit 6. So one weighting method that we've been
talking about, just to be more specific, is we're going to weight the stratumus
that's by the size of the strata. So our y bar is the sum
of the y bar sub H, the means in each of our strata,
combined with the weight factor, capital W sub h,
the relative sizes of each of the strata. Unfortunately as I say this
is not done in the software. If the software were to
do this kind of thing, it would need to know not only
the strata that we've got. That would be natural and
we're going to specify that when we do variance estimation what
stratum each of the elements is in. But also the W sub h. We're going to have to give
that in a separate string. And if we have a lot of strata,
it could be very tedious to do. So the software has never gone
in that kind of direction. What they've done is
to weight by elements. Because the weighting by elements not only
deals with the stratified sampling case, but a number of other cases where we
have disproportion allocations, but generated in a different way. So there is a way to get the same
mean using element weights, rather than stratum weights. And that can be done if
what we do is use a weight, and I'm just going to give you the result,
if we use a weight at the element level, that is capital N sub H/n sub H. That is the population size
divided by the sample size. That is the inverse of
the sampling fraction. It's the inverse of the sampling
rate within the strata. If we use that weight, and
weigh each element now, not each stratum mean, but each element within
each strata by that weighting factor. And we multiply each value by
that weight and add it up and divide by the sum of those weights,
we get exactly the same mean. That is an issue that we're going to
need to consider in more detail and understand why these sampling rates,
the inverse of sampling rates would give us the actual estimate that's obtained
by using the stratum weights. We'll come back to this in
Unit 6 when we talk about weighting as one of our
three main topics in Unit 6. But at this point,
it's just worth keeping in mind. Stratified random sampling,
we can compute our estimates by weighting at the stratum level, computing
everything within the strata, and then multiplying by the weight
when we're computing the mean. Or by the square of the weight,
when computing the variances. But we can also do that same
kind of calculation weighting, as we've seen here, by the inverse of the
sampling rate within each of the strata. But before we get to talking
about weighting in Unit 6, there's another sample design
that we're going about in Unit 5. And that's one that's
called systematic sampling. Sometimes it's referred to in
literature as pseudo random sampling. It's a simplified kind of sampling. And with simplified kind of sampling,
it helps us when we're dealing with clerically complicated kinds of sampling
procedures to have something that is very easy to do, a much more straightforward
way of dealing with this. And so we're going to talk there about
such factors as selection and list order, and intervals, and estimating standard
errors for systematic samples. Just to give us another tool in our
kit of randomized selection and simple random sampling, cluster sampling to save
money, and stratified random sampling to make ourselves more efficient and
address such issues as domain estimation. So please join me in Unit 5 as we
talk about systematic sampling and its applications. Thank you.