We now know that systematic samples
depend on two features of our design. The interval and
the random start the two work together. Our random start can be between one and
the interval, or it can be anywhere on the list,
depending on the sampling technique, the systematic sampling
technique we're going to apply. And we've been looking at some methods for
dealing with the situation where that sampling interval has a fractional part,
a decimal part that goes with it. So we want to continue to look at these
fractional intervals by talking about the approach that in dealing with this we
take the fractional interval directly. This is the third alternative among
the three that we're going to discuss for systematic sampling. Now this one requires us to be both
focused on a technique that we learned and then we have some insight in
to how the technique works. And we're actually just going to
use the fractional part. We're not going to round
it away in our interval but we're actually going to use it in
determining which elements are selected. So let's say that we had a list that had 23 elements in the population
that we're going to draw sample of 5. So 23 elements, sample of 5, our interval
would be 23 divided by 5 or 4.6. Now, to choose our random start now,
we're not going to round that interval and we're going to choose a random
start that includes the decimal. So the random start could be 0.1 or
0.2 or 0.3, 0.4. Now that sounds odd, how can we start
with a 0.4 when there is no element 0.4? We're going to have to do some
rounding but the rounding is done after we have calculated the selection. And we include the fractional part in
that calculation of the selection, before we do any rounding. So all we're going to do
is shift the rounding from the interval to the selection, all right. So, let's start with a table
of random numbers and choose a random number from 0.1 to 4.6. Then we're going to have to think
a little bit creatively about it. Our random number tables don't come
with decimals inserted in them, but it doesn't matter. What we're interested in is
any number from 01 to 46, where we're going to insert
the decimal between the two digits. We need a two digit number then,
from 0.1 to 4.6 or 1 to 46, and then we're going to
insert that decimal. Suppose that number that we choose is 35,
or inserting the decimal, making it a fractional interval
gives us an interval of 3.5. What are we going to do with that? Before we get to that, what are we going to do if we don't
have a table of random numbers? Well, we can go back to our system of
generating uniform random numbers, things that we talked about when
we talk about random numbers from zero to one in the software package. And in this particular case, we've
generated a uniform random number from our package, whatever it happens to be. And it happens to be 0.76087. Well that certainly
doesn't get us started. We need a random number not from 0
to 1 as the generator provides it, but from 0.1 to 3.5. Let's simply multiply 4.6,
the interval that we have, by that random start, that 0.76087. We get 3.5 again, and
that's our random start. So either way, we're going to look it
up in a table, implied decimal, or we're going to use a generator that
gives us a number on the uniform distribution between zero and one. And then multiply that times the interval
to get our random start for our process. But wait a minute,
what do we do at that point? Well we continue, we're going to
continue this process by doing the systematic counting now, and
not counting by a whole number by 4, by 10, by 15, by 37 but
counting by the actual interval 4.6. So we start for
the first selection with 3.5 and we count to 3.5 plus 4.6 to 8.1. Now I know the fractional part is there. But we're going to leave it there. We're just going to use it all the way
through before we do any rounding. Again, we're going to add the interval of
4.6 to where we just got to the 8.1 for our third selection 12.7. Added again one more time to 12.7, the 4.6 to 17.3, add it one more time. We're not off the end of the list. 17.3 plus 14.6, 21.9 and one more time,
now we go off the end of the list. 4.6 plus 21.9 is 26.5,
there are only 23 elements on our list. So we've gone too far. Our five selections then happened to be
those that we've got up until the time we went off the end of the list. And so that, oops factor says, yes,
we're off the end of the list but back up because we now have
as our selections, 3.5, 8.1, 12.7, 17.3, and 21.9. But wait a minute,
we have these decimals remaining. We're going to have to
round them at this point. And a simple, and from a probability
point of view acceptable, way to do the rounding is truncation. Truncation, just dropping the decimal. It's a form of rounding. Our usual rounding rule is to round up or
round down, depending on whether the decimal portion
is 0.5 or larger, rounding up, or less than 0.5, and rounding down. Here let's just simply strike that
decimal in each of those cases, so that our selections now become 3,
8, 12, 17, and 21. Now, we've got 3, 8, 12,
17, and 21 as selections, and notice something about them. From 3 to 6 is an interval of 5,
from 8 to 12 is an interval of 4. From 12 to 17 an interval of 5,
from 17 to 21 an interval of 4. Our interval is varying depending on
the rounding that's actually happened. The rounding is the accumulation of
the decimal portion of the interval, of that 4.6, and
sometimes it causes us to go up by 5, sometimes it causes us to
end up having counted by 4. Our interval varies across
all possible random starts. The interval, when we take all of these
gaps between each of the selections and average them will be indeed 4.6. Remember our conceptual representation for
this in which we had columns that represented the different samples in rows,
the different elements in the samples. Well, think about it this way. Here in this display, you'll notice the red numbers
are those that are actually selected. The columns are the random starts now
let's move over to the random starts here. I did put them all on this
is too busy enough as it is, right this is really hard to see. But, moved over to
the column labeled 1.0 or 10, 1 in red 0 in black. And we'll notice as we go down that
column we start with that element 1.0 and then add the 4.6 to get 5.6,
10.2, 14.8, 19.4. And now we go through and
simply drop the black digits to get our selections 1, 5, 10, 14 and 19. And that's true of all the random starts
from 1 all the way up to 1.0 to 4.6. We get five selections, including the one that was initially
our random start after we truncate. There is the problem of, wait a minute what about those random
starts that are less than one? But in that case, if we dropped the decimal we get
zero there is no zero in element. So we just continue on with the process. So go to the column labeled 01, 0.1. Adding the interval is 4.7. Adding the interval again is 9.3 and
so on. And we can see that we get before
we get off the end of the list with truncation, we have five selections. 4, 9, 13, 18, and 23 and that's true of all of those
random starts from 0.1 to 0.9. That is, we have six numbers there but one of them does not generate
a selection but the other five do. That's the way the process
would work in practice. So just to identify again one more time. In our case, we had a random start of 3.5. And that generated the 81 or
8.1, 12.7, 17.3, 21.9. Truncating gave us our sample. And if we had instead
gotten instead of 3.5, 0.5, one of the possible random starts, we
would still have the five selections, 5, 9, 14, 18, and 23. That we had before five selections and
be done. So every time we're going to get
selections back there won't be any variation on the sample size. So always going to be a sample size five. And we seemed to resolve
the problem except for and we realize we've got this varying
gap between the numbers but. Once we truncated, doesn't matter. We know that gap on average
will be the right one. All right, seems like a reasonable
solution but it's a little bit confusing. What's really important here is whether or not every element in the list has the same
weight, the same chance of being selected. So is every element in the list represented among this myriad
of numbers now, that we have? We've got lots and
lots of selections that are occurring. And when we do that truncation do
we get the right balance here, the right probability, an EPSEM Sample? So, here we could work backwards. We could go through that list, and
you may want to go back and do this, and find all the instances where
the first element is chosen. You're going to have to find the 1.0,
the 1.1, the 1.2, and so on through 1.9, where the truncation
eliminates the decimal portion. It turns out the only way that element
1 could be chosen in that scheme is if the random start is 1.0 to 1.9 that is
10 to 19 and there are 10 numbers there. Ten possible random starts
that select element 1. That means that there are 46 random
starts, 10 of which selected. Its chance of selection is 10 over 46,
or 1 in 4.6, or very importantly, 1 over the interval. The interval is actually
the inverse of the sampling rate. And so our sampling rate is one
over the interval and that's oftentimes how we express these things as
we talk about these in the sampling realm. We're going to talk about
a sampling rate of 1 and 4.6, which we now know we can implement
through a fractional interval method to obtain exactly that sampling rate. What about element 2? Well, it's the same thing. It's only the random starts,
2.0 through 2.9. What about element 3? Same thing, there are exactly
10 random starts to get them. But now when we get to 4, there are two ways that the fourth
element can come in in the sample. Either the random start is at the end
of the list, 4.0, 4.1, 4.2 through 4.6. Or if we go back to the beginning of
the random starts, 0.1, 0.2 and 0.3. When we add the interval and we truncate,
will get us the fourth element. And again there is only ten of
those columns that will generate that fourth element in one of our samples,
same probability. For the fifth element,
now this is a second generation one. This is one that can only be selected
as one of the second selections, provided the random start
is anyone from 0.4 to 1.3. But there are ten of them and
again we get the same result. We can go through and identify these selections all the way
through with this kind of scheme. And identify ten samples
that everyone is in. There is a little confusion here. Element 4 can come in to the sample
as a first selection but element 5 can come in as
a first selection or a second. So, that seems to be
potentially confusing, but there's no problem with the probabilities
with something like this. So, again, the simple method is
epsem in this particular case, this fractional interval. This is a very widely used technique for systematic sampling with
fractional intervals. Well there are some other
techniques that we could do for dealing with a fractional interval. But they're beyond the scope of what we're
doing, and they're not used as often. They're used in particular circumstances,
or sometimes just by preference, that someone would use them. But we need to turn to another topic
with respect to systematic sampling. We're going to talk about what happens if
the underlying list has an ordering to it? And what that implies in terms of
the kinds of selections that we get? And we're going to consider several
different kinds of list order, and has an impact on the sample that we're
going to talk about in our next lecture. So, please join us then when we talk
in lecture three about list order in continuing our discussion
about systematic sampling. Thank you.