We've been talking about systematic
sampling now as part of unit five. Having discussed the basic principles
of systematic sampling and the features that make it simple and
applicable in many situations. In this lecture, lecture two from unit
five, what we're going to do is discuss the interval, the sampling interval
that we calculated before. Except in our earlier illustrations that
sampling interval had a whole number, there was no fractional part. And it's quite possible to get intervals
when we take the approach that we looked at last time that involve
a fractional part of the decimal. So what we're going to do is talk
about the nature of that problem. And then, three solutions to that problem. And in this lecture, we will talk
about rounding as a solution and circular lists as a solution. Then we'll take a break and we'll come
back to talk about something that's called a fractional interval as a way of
dealing with this particular problem. But first the problem. Our process is one in which we first
determine a sampling interval by taking the population size, the length of the list and dividing by
the sample size to get an interval k. And then we choose a random number
from 1 to k as our starting point and when we take that random number,
we select that case and then we add k to that random number
to get the second selection. We add k again to get
the third selection and so on. So for example, if there were 12,000
elements on a list, in this case, dwellings, housing units, in a city,
we had a list of all of them and we were doing a systematic sample of them,
of size 500, our interval would be calculated as
k of 12,000 divided by 500 or 24. We're going to take every 24,000 unit
from the list after a random start and suppose our random number for
that random start was 03. We look up a two digit random number
between zero one and two four. And if it's 03 then, we take the third
dwelling and then we add 24 to get the 27th, and we add 24 to
that to get the 51st and so on. So that's the basic
features of the problem. But, what happens if in calculating
that interval, the ratio of population size to sample size
has a decimal, a fractional part. So for example, a very small
population just to see it immediately of 9 elements of which we're taking 2,
then our integral is 4.5. If we happen to have 952 elements,
as I once had on a list and was sampling 200 of them and the interval
is 4.76 it can be even more decimals. For example, a list with 170,345
elements of which we are taking 1,250, well there the interval has
three decimals to it and we can get repeating decimals and
other problems. But let's limit our consideration to one
or two decimals even if we have three or more we may round to three or
round to two decimals there to work with. What are our alternatives for
dealing with a situation like this? We could do an obvious thing which is
to consider among our alternatives. The idea of rounding, rounding
the interval to eliminate the fraction. So for example,
when that population was of size 9, and we took 2,
we could take an interval of 4 or 5. We could take the 4.5 as the interval and round it up to 5 or simply truncate it and
round it down to 4. We don't have to follow the usual rounding
rules that are used in statistics and math and in science. We can simply move it up or down depending
on our individual circumstances. Now, I'm an American baseball fan and have
been watching baseball the past year and this is not the kind of
rounding that goes on there, where they're rounding the bases. Now, this is the kind that
although it has the same feature, this is the kind in which we are choosing
an integer either the integer that precedes the decimal portion or
one more than that integer. So for this particular case,
if we rounded, decided to round to 4 as an interval,
and chose as a random number 1 then, we would select the first,
and the fifth, and the ninth. In each case, we've added the interval and
when we got to the last one and we were adding the interval
one more time to the ninth, we realize we're off the end of the list. So there's only three
possible selections there. On the other hand though, when we
routed to an interval of size 4 and our random starts are 2, 3 or 4, 2, 3, or
4, the sample will have only two elements. It would be 2 and 6,
or 4 and 7 or 4 and 8. So we now see that we've got our
sample size variation when we round. And it goes in both directions, it doesn't solve the problem to
round up in this particular case. If our interval is 5 and
our random starts are 1, 2, 3 or 4, the sample could have two elements
chosen when those random numbers or random starts are 1, 2, 3 or 4 and if the random number were 5 then we
only have one elements that's chosen. So we get fluctuation between
two numbers in the sample size. Well, that kind of an approach can be more
complicated with larger kinds of problems. For example, 952 in the population and
200 in the sample. Here, if we round the interval to be 5,
that was a 4.76, we rounded up to 5,
random numbers 1, 2, 3 and 4, we'll select now, not 200 but 191. In random number 5 gets us one less, we don't even get the exact sample
size for this particular one. And so the rounding product
can be more severe in certain circumstances even when we have
a 170,345 and the sample of 1,250. Our rounding of that interval that we
had before, could lead to 1, 252 or 1, 253 elements in the sample. So rounding is a feasible solution but
it has two problems with it. One is that the sample size will
vary depending on the random start, vary by one. The second is that it may also not lead
to the exact sample size that we were interested in or even being one away. We maybe further away than that. So with that in mind,
that the sample size is not fixed and we don't get the target sample size,
we have to seek another solution. Ignoring rounding is an alternative. This is being aware of
the consequences of doing it. Whether we round up or round down and
whether we get the sample size that we desire or a sample size that is
one more or one less than we desire. If that is acceptable in our
particular framework, in our context, in our problem, then rounding
is a perfectly valid solution. But many people would prefer
to see a fixed sample size. They don't want to see it fluctuate. It could be for budget reasons. It could be for cosmetic reasons. You've told the sponsor they're going
to get so many cases and instead, you come back with a different number. A solution that some people then
would advocate is what's referred to as a circular list. As before, we're going to calculate
an interval and when we have a fractional part, we'll round up or
round down to some interval say k*. So, before if we had an interval
of 4.5 we could round down to 4 or up to 5, those would be our k* for
that one. But now, when we go to choose our random
start, we don't choose it from one up to the interval,
we choose it anywhere on the list, anywhere of the capital N
elements on the list at random. And then,we start there and keep going
until we have n elements selected. But, there's the obvious problem that we could get to the end of the list
before we our lower keys n elements. But let me repeat that again. We're going to make our selection with
that random start and keep adding the interval, we only stop when we have
our sample size, the required sample size. Not the rounded up on the one that we make
up with the rounding, where we go up or down but the fixed sample size. Now, think about this one like
a clock as a solution here. This is the wrapping of the numbering and
we do this all the time. So here's a 12 hour clock
in my lower left image. There's a 24 hour clock. But we do it all the time as
we get to the higher numbers, we just start rounding around. So if it happened to be 11 o'clock at
night or 11 o'clock in the morning and someone said to you,
I'll be there in two hours. You know to add two hours, you're going to
count up by 1 to 12 and then 1 o'clock. Well the same kind of thing happens here
when we're doing this kind of rounding. Suppose that in this particular case,
we're going to choose an interval of 2. We got a population of 12, we're
going to choose 5 of those elements and our interval is 2.4, 12 divided by 5. Suppose we've decided to round
our interval down to 2 and we choose our random start anywhere
in the list now not between 1 and 2 but anywhere from 1 to 12. So we look up a two digit
random number from 01 to 12 and we've identified that,
we begin the process. So suppose that our start was at 7,
randomly chosen. Then we would add 2 to get to 9. And to that 9,
we would add 2 to get to 11 but now when we add two,
we're off the end of the list. And so what we would do is wrap around
to the next one that is 1, from 11 to 1. And, then we would add our
interval again to get 3 and we're done with our sample at that point. So we have in our sample,
7, 9, 11, 1, and 3. Random start of 7, interval of 2, and wrapping from the end of the list
back to the beginning of the list. Now remember with this one,
we can start anywhere on the list but then when we get to the end of it,
we wrap. So circular list. Just think about this as a giant clock and if we had a clock with 900 elements on it,
it's the same thing. When we get to the end of that list and
our interval, adding our interval to that last selection
takes us beyond the end of the list, we count, however, many it takes
to get to the end of the list and then we resume our counting
at the beginning of the list. So, if our last selection in
a list of 900 was 890 and our interval were 20,
we would count out a 91, two, three, four, five, six ,seven, eight, nine. And then we would continue nine and
zero to 900, there's ten and then we count ten more, one through
ten to get our selection which is the tenth element now at
the beginning of the list. Okay, now it's a little bit tricky
because this is going to be confusing for some of us. Rounding, we choose one
of two alternatives. We take our rounded interval and
we choose a random start between one and that interval and
then apply that to the list. We're going to start at the beginning and go all the way through
until we get to the end but we know that we may not get our exact
sample size and it may fluctuate by one. Or, instead of choosing the random
start between one and the interval, the rounded interval, we treat it like
this clock, like this circular list and we choose a random start from anywhere
on the list from one to capital N. And then, we begin our process
of taking that random start and then the next selection is that
random start plus the interval, the next one is the random start plus
two times the interval and so on and when we get to the end of the list
wrapping around the beginning. Now, just one cite to note here. I've assumed that we know capital
end is actually there in the list. Sometimes we do systematic sampling and settings where we don't have
the full list assembled. Say for example, we're dealing
with a process in which there are people flowing through
a meeting point, a starting point, a stopping point, passengers
getting off of an airline flight. People entering into a conference
at a single entrance and we decide to take every so
many subjects there. Well, we would have to gauge roughly,
how many subjects are going to go, get beyond that flight? Or how many subjects are going
to pass through our entry point in order to control our process
under what size sample we want? But there, we wouldn't have
certain of this problem nor would we have this fractional interval kind of problem where we're going to
have fluctuation in sample size. So we can do systematic sampling without
knowing capital N but the approach that we would take would likely be
the one where we've got some rounded whole number interval that we're going
to be using in a circumstance like that. Well, there's two techniques. There's one more that we want to talk
about called fractional intervals. Before we go onto that, let's take
a break and resume our discussion for lecture two after a little bit of a break. Thank you.