Up until now, when talking about sampling,
whether it's people or records or networks, we've been dealing with
one sampling technique at a time. But here, as we move into the second
lecture in Unit 6 on some extensions and applications, what we're going to
do is talk about how to combine our techniques in manners that allow us to
address more and more complex frames. We're going to talk about stratified
multistage sampling that combines our ideas about randomization,
as well as stratification, with a whole lot of clustering in our sample selection,
to address the problem we've referenced before with respect to cluster sampling,
what do I do when I don't have a list? What do I do to try and
reduce the sampling operation to make it cost-feasible for me to get this work
done when I don't have that list? And we're going to do some
cluster sampling, but we're also going to
stratify the clusters and we're going to make sure that those
clusters are selected at random. But we're going to do
this at several levels. We're not just going to have one level
of clustering, but in our particular illustration, two or three levels
of clustering in our selection. We'll talk about, then,
the first level of cluster selection, what we'll call primary sampling units,
or PSUs, as our first topic. And how we deal with those,
what they might look like. And I'm going to take a particular
example from the United States just to illustrate this. This is not to say that sample selection
needs to look like this in other settings. This is just to illustrate the ideas and
indicate that these are not ideas that are completely foreign,
difficult for us to apply. They deal with real materials,
as we've been doing all along. We'll talk about what happens after we
select those units, when we still are not at a place where we have a list of our
elements that we're interested in. We'll talk about second-stage units. And in our particular case, we'll even move to a third-stage
unit called housing units. So we're going to work our
way all the way down for drawing a sample in
the United States of housing units. The housing units, for us, may be the object, they may end
up being what we want to study. But more likely, what they will represent
to us is a collection of people who usually reside together in
something called a household, and it's the people that we're after. So there may be an additional
step of selection within a sample of housing units in order to
get to our final elements, persons. At the very end I want to say just
a little bit about estimation. That's beyond the scope of this course,
but we'll mention just a few things about
it before we wrap up on this lecture. So the first thing that one does is think
about the sampling units that one's going to have available for
a particular application. Now, many times the applications are such
that other people have already done similar work, and you can build
on their work or borrow from it. In our particular case, we're going
to be looking at drawing a sample of housing units from across
the United States. And we're going to start by using units
that are readily available to us. In this particular case, nothing to
do with housing units specifically, but to land areas. We're going to identify the primary
sampling units, our starting point, something that has a large
enough number of those units. Not just a few of them that we're
going to take an even smaller number, but a large number of them that we're
going to make a selection of them. And then we're going to divide the
selected primary sampling units up into secondary units. And then we're going to select those, but only within the selected
primary sampling units. And within those secondary units,
etc., we're going to select either third-level units or housing units,
however we're going to get there. And I'm going to take you through just a
few illustrations of some of the material that might be used for
something like this. Now, our primary sampling units for our particular application in the United
States are subdivisions called counties. There was a time in which not
all the states had counties. They all had subdivisions, but sometimes they were called
different kinds of things. And actually, to this day,
some of them still have those labels. For example, in Louisiana,
the counties are referred to as parishes. But they're basic units, and this is a map
of the United States showing the detailed boundaries of all of these counties. There are over 3,000 of them in
the United States, and Alaska and Hawaii are inserted here, and they,
too, have these kinds of subdivisions. They vary enormously in geographic size,
but we're going to think about these counties
now as collections of housing units. Not a collection of housing units that
we can go to and list all of them. These counties can have
hundreds of thousands, millions of housing units in them. And some can have fewer than 10,000. So there's a lot of variation in size. But this is a good place for
starting to sample. We've defined the unit that we're
going to use as our primary sampling, our first-stage selection. Knowing that there will be
additional steps in the selection, stages in the selection, clustering, to
help us get to a point where we can have a list of housing units from
which we can draw our sample. So, we've identified those first-stage
units, and what we're going to do with them is stratify them, just as we've
done before when we dealt with elements. We're now going to stratify
the primary sampling units. Stratification was a general-purpose
tool and we used it to assure representation and possibly provide
us with gains in precision, as you recall when we did proportionally
allocated stratified samples of elements. When we do that application of
stratification to these PSUs, in this case counties, we're going to
follow principles that are similar to those that we used in
element stratification. But here, we're going to use
cluster characteristics. We're going to stratify the clusters,
not the elements. Although implicitly,
the housing units are getting stratified, because they're contained
within these PSUs and we're putting the PSUs into groups
where they're relatively homogeneous. The counties within a group
are similar to one another, with respect to characteristics
that we're interested in. With respect to the nature of
the counties, is it an urban or a rural location? Does it have high or
low rates of unemployment? Does it have a high fraction of
occupied housing units or a low one? All sorts of things that we can identify
for these primary sampling units. Our groups will be mutually exclusive and
exhaustive, just as we did before. The stratifying variables, the boundaries
and the other kinds of things follow the same kinds of element sampling
stratification principles we talked about before, but it's applied just to
those units, as I've been saying. But once we've got that
creation of those groupings, those strata, then we're going to allocate
a sample of clusters across the strata. We'll figure out how many
of these things to use using the kind of approach we talked about
before with respect to cluster sampling, where we identified the optimum
subsample size, and thereby, the optimum number of primary sampling units that
we can select, the number of clusters. We could do the allocation across
our strata proportionately. We could do it to such an extent that we
have only two selections per stratum. We could do it so that there's
a different number than two but an equal number in each of the strata,
or other kinds of allocations. We've mentioned Neyman or
minimum variance kinds of allocations. Very seldom used with this kind of thing,
because there is not much gain available beyond the kinds of
things we can do proportionately. Within each of the groups, within each of the strata,
we're going to select our samples. And then, we are going to, after data
collection, Compute estimates for each of the strata,
each of the groups separately. Not only the statistic we're
interested in, let's just say a mean or a proportion, but
also the sampling variance of that mean or that proportion within each group,
and then we're going to combine them. We're going to use those combining
rules we did for stratified sampling. But now applying it to the strata for
the primary sampling units. Again, the stratification is there to
control the distribution of the sample to make sure that certain groups are not
left out due to randomization and chance result in our sample selection. And we have the potential to
decrease sampling rates too depending on how we apply
our allocation rules. Well, how could we do that
kind of stratification? Well, with our PSU's, with our
Primary Sampling Units being counties. Here's another map of the United States. At a slightly different scale and
Alaska is now on the upper left and Hawaii in the lower left and
even Puerto Rico is shown here. But this is a map showing
the counties now that are metropolitan of two levels,
very large and all other. And they're highlighted in green and
then dark green and even a lighter green shading. And then the other counties that are in
white are those that are non-metropolitan. So this is a visual way of
representing a stratification, by taking those counties and dividing
them into, let's say, four groups. The very large metropolitan areas,
the medium sized metropolitan areas, the smaller sized metropolitan areas,
and the non-metropolitan areas, all represented in terms
of the colors on the graph. That's a form of stratification. Well there are other kinds
of things that can be done. Usually what we're going to be
doing is not looking at a map, but a list of the primary sampling units. And this is a partial list of primary
sampling units that are counties in one part of the United States that
has already been organized for. So, they've already been grouped into
a stratum, they've got numbers on them, we've got their names, and for
each of them we have size, we have even accumulation of the size. And what we're going to
do here is order these, not by alphabetic means which it may
appear that these are, but geographically. We're going to put these
counties next to each other on the list that are next
to each other physically. And so we're going to work our way through
this particular location, and organize our list, order our list geographically, and
then draw a sample from it systematically. That will give us implicit geographic
stratification, even within our larger strata, where we've explicitly
grouped these counties together. So, we will use combinations
here of stratification and clustering, along with randomized
selection, but we'll even use an implicit stratification through systematic
selection with random starts. That's the selection of the counties
from a geographically ordered list. What happens then at the second stage now? Supposed we've selected those counties,
what should we do at that point? Well, we have some decisions to make
with respect to sampling units again. We're now going to need to look to
see what can I do within this county? Can I go right to the housing unit? Well, most of these counties are way
too large for us to do that. We would end up listing thousands and
thousands of housing units. And in our sample drawing, only
a small number, a few hundred perhaps. Well, we've spent a lot of money on this. We wouldn't want to do that. So we're going to introduce
another level of unit there to reduce potentially the amount
of listing that we have to do. Here, one kind of second stage unit
that comes from the in the US case. The census operations
are called census tracts. Geographic areas that are defined
to be like neighborhoods they're designed to have roughly the same
number of housing units in each. But there's a lot of variation in size. They're created for purposes of reporting,
statistical reporting. So that these areas actually have
more detailed data presented for them from the census information. And here you can see in
this particular county, this is a county that we've zoomed in on. We're showing the basic boundaries of
the census tracks, but you see there's concentration's dense areas where those
census tracks come out smaller and others where they're much larger. Population is more dense in those
areas where we have lots and lots of census tracks. So that's one possible unit for
our selection that we would use to select an additional location or areas within
our county before we start our listing. The difficulty with census tracts is
because they're fairly large in size. We're talking about thousands
of housing units in them. They are following boundaries
that are convenient to follow. Most of the time,
these are roads that people can follow so they're not hard to do, but
they are a fairly large forms. And so we might seek another unit that's
smaller in terms of the number of housing units within it and indeed there is
such a unit called a census block. And here's a map of census blocks
within that same county, and you see the heavy dark
lines there to find tracts. Now these are tract abbreviations,
they all start with a 4,000. But these are the tract boundaries. And within them, you can see finer
gradations which are census blocks. All of the land area within our county
is subdivided into not only tracts, but even finer gradations, blocks. And this happens to be around
the University of Michigan where we're recording these lectures. And so we have a choice, should we use
sets of tracts, larger units and then try and figure out what to do with housing
units, or should we go right to blocks? Or should we do tracts and then blocks? There are decisions to be made. On the basis of practical considerations
that are a little bit beyond our scope, one would make a choice. In this particular case, we decided that because the census
blocks cover all the land area and their group within tracts,
we may as well just use them directly. It means that our sample may be a little
more spread out because we've got blocks all across that county. But the travel considerations and
other cost considerations indicated that that's not a substantial problem for
us to deal with as opposed to having a few fairly large areas,
called tracts, to deal with. Again, with the secondary sampling units,
we can create a list. These kinds of materials are readily
available in this particular case at the block level. Here's a listing of blocks in which we
indicate the tract and block number. All the blocks have
numbers rather than names. They have counts of housing units
that we can use as measures of size. They can be cumulated,
they can be numbered, and this kind of thing then corresponds to
that geographic area in the lower left. I'm showing an 18th century map of the
city of Detroit, one of the oldest cities in the United States, but even back
then it was divided into blocks because the land area was divided geographically
for purposes of agricultural production. And there were housing units located
on different tracts of land. But those tracts of land often
were bounded by roads or in those days dirt tracks. But that list can, again, be used for drawing a sample of blocks
from a particular area. Here, for example,
within a multi-block area, in the white unshaded area are a set of three
blocks that were selected for our study. They were selected together because they
were fairly small in size and we decided to link them together to give something
sufficient in size for us to work with. But nonetheless, that selection leads us to then the next
level which is the housing unit. Now are we down to the level where we
can actually list housing units and have a small enough number in our list
that we will select enough of them to make it worth our while to
have listed the housing units? So here's a magnification of that area, a sketch map that we're going to need
to fill in where the housing units are. Now, this particular illustration
that I'm giving us here comes from a sampling operation in
which there were no listed housing units available from any commercial
source or any government source. So we had to create them ourselves. So we actually sent someone physically
to that block to list the housing units. And as they were doing it, they made
annotations on the map that we gave them to tell us, look,
here's where I started, look at the X. And the arrow indicates which way I went, I went in a clockwise
fashion around the block. And by the way, there's a public
library here on this corner. There no housing units over here. There's a park in this particular corner. That kind of thing then
will help us orient for after we've selected housing units,
getting back to those housing units, finding them, and
conducting data collection. But we don't actually try and list things
on that map, but in a separate listing. You have a list of housing,
just a list like this one, a housing unit list of the mapped area. Showing the address of the housing unit,
and in some cases, a little more detail, when it's not entirely clear that
it would be easy to find them. It might be an apartment building,
it might be a building that was a single family home
divided now into apartments. We may need some specification
that goes with it. But that listing there is defining
what our housing units are. And they're done geographically. Listed geographically, so
that we can make a selection that has implicit stratification by geographically
by selecting from it systematically again. Notice, systematic selection gets used
in this process, because from an ordered list, it has valuable properties without
us having to form explicit strata. Alright, so, multistages. In that particular case, we started
with counties, we went to blocks, and then we went to housing units. In each case we thought about
stratification either explicitly, formal groupings, or
implicitly through an ordered list and a systematic selection from it. However we end up doing our final sample,
combining our sampling techniques. We are still faced with
the task of estimation. In this case, estimation from a stratified
multistage sample is just beyond the scope of the course. It's not that it's going to be
unfamiliar to you in looking at it, but you'll find that there's a subsequent
course in the specialization that addresses the issues that are there. Such as computing estimates for
complex samples, and computing estimates of sampling
variances from these complex samples. Complex samples involving stratification,
clustering, and randomization in them. And then drawing inferences, how do we
calculate from those standard errors, confidence intervals that
take into account the design, what degrees of freedom should we use,
and so on. So, estimation would follow from
this particular sample design. But all these features are going
to be built into the estimation, just as they're built into the sample
selection that we've just gone through. Okay, so it's an extension
of what we have been doing, an extension to stratified
multistage sampling. So as you get some idea about what we mean
by this, it's done in many different ways across countries around the world,
depending on the available materials. Whether they're available from
the census or from registry systems. But nonetheless, those samples would
follow very similar kinds of designs. Let's turn in lecture 3 then, to a series of three lectures
that will deal with weighting. As part of our extensions and
applications, because weights are, as we've seen already,
problematic in estimation. And we want to talk in a little more
detail about how weights are created and used in three instances. One, having to do with over and
undersampling, in our next lecture. As well as non-response and non-coverage
adjustments and network sampling. But our next lecture, lecture 3, will be
on weights for over and undersampling, and I look forward to you joining us there
as we develop that topic more fully. Thank you.