Let's talk about sampling network,
shall we? We're in unit six of our six
unit series of presentations and we're in the fifth lecture now in which
we're talking about sampling networks. And talking about sampling networks
from a couple of perspectives. We're going to do two illustrations here. We're going to do two different
kinds of networks that arise in the survey literature. These are not the only kinds and it doesn't mean that this is the only way
to think about doing network sampling. Certainly, the kinds of things that people
think about for networks, social networks, and other kinds of
things they have similar kinds of approaches to what we're
going to be talking about here. But, I'm going to talk
about two simpler examples, just the basics of what happens
when you deal with networks. Now, these networks arise in
all sorts of circumstances. You may have something that is a network
system that is a social network. There are groups of people who
are socially connected to one another. Many times those social
connections are quiet complex. Their connected not only to one or two other people but lots of other people,
sometimes only a couple of other people. And we can get very dense
kinds of systems, but then having different groupings of
these networks, different combinations. Now the basic diagram has
those dots there, nodes. We'll think about those as persons. Now the lines are edges. They are the connectivity among the units
and we're going to think about, as I say, people and
the edge's relationships. But it could be computers and
connectivity among them. It could be any number of
networking kinds of circumstances. This network diagram represents one
that has cases that are isolated, standalone in these kinds of networks. The networks can be quiet distributed. They're may be centralized around
a single individual or even something in which there is a central location that
is a node that is unlike the other nodes. Maybe they're connected
through a common organization. But not everybody's connected
to that organization, but they're connected to it indirectly. And so, the networks can be generalized
to also include not only people, but people and collections of people,
organizational units as well. We're going to look at two examples,
as they say, of this kind of thing. But before we do that, we should recognize that there
are different patterns to these networks. And what we're going to do is look at something that might be
labelled a star pattern. Something where there's
a central collection, where that unit may be a person or
it could be an organization. And then we are also
going to look at things that more fully connected networks that
one that’s shown in the upper right. Even though there are other
kinds of networks here. As you pose the problem of
drawing samples of the nodes in these kinds of things think about how
individual elements could be selected. The shape of that network,
the pattern of that network will dictate certain kinds of things
that influence our estimation. So let's suppose we have this kind
of a pattern as part of our network. Here we have a group of nodes. The circles there are people. And they happened to be
connected to one another. Well, not in all cases. Sometimes, there's a single circle there. It's a person that is unconnected to
anyone else in our network framing. In other cases, they're connected to
one other person or two other persons. But these are those
kinds of mesh networks. They're connected to everybody
in their local network, but they're disconnected from the others. Now how could something like this arise? Well, one of the ways that this arises in
the survey literature is something that was referred to as multiplicity
sampling and multiplicity waiting. So the idea was that you have
a collection of those people available. And you sample those people,
and as you do it, our red dots are the sampled people,
you identify their network. What is their network that
they're connected to? So now you see what we've done. We've actually taken a sample of people,
and we've asked them what their
network is in a particular way. Now, this particular network
has to do with siblings. What is your network
with respect to siblings? These could be siblings that
are related to you by blood, or by adoption, or by marriage. We can define it in a variety of
ways involving half siblings and full siblings and a variety of others. But let's just deal with the siblings
now that we think about ordinarily in terms of brothers and sisters,
whether it's by birth or by adoption. And so now what we've done is
draw a sample of people, and define their network for them. The networks are unconnected. In this particular case we didn't draw
anybody who was from the same network, we just happen to get individual networks. And so we've drawn a sample of nodes and now we're looking at
the networks that they comprise. This has implications force in terms
of sampling, because now we've actually identified a larger number
of persons than in our sample. The red dots are a little less than
half of the total number of persons in our network, as defined by our networks. That would allow us to take
the sample that we have, and expand its reach to the sample plus all of
those who are in the existing networks. So we can now talk about
the individuals and their siblings. And that would allow us to possibly
collect data about the individuals and the siblings through the single interview,
and thereby have a larger base sample and
potentially a more precise estimate, especially when we're dealing
with rare characteristics. So suppose that in this sibling
network we're what we're interested in is a disease condition, diabetes. And we know that the frequency of
diabetes is low enough that if we just stuck with the red individuals, the
sampled individuals, we're going to have a fairly small sample and a fairly small
number of cases of diabetes in our sample. But if we expand to include the entire
network, now we're going to have not only those that we selected, but also
their siblings involved in the sample. And we will try a data collection
in which we attempt to collect data about not only the sample person,
but ask them about their siblings. Now there's a measurement
problem that arises here. How do we measure that characteristic for
those that we haven't selected? But there's also a sampling
problem here and that is that if you happen to be
part of a two sibling arrangement you were selected and
you have one sibling who was not selected. And we collect data about you and ask you
about information about your sibling. That sibling has two ways
of coming in the sample. So do you. Because you came in because
you were selected but you could also come in because your
sibling was selected, and vice versa. Your sibling could come in
because they were selected, or because you were selected and
provided information about them. We have then multiple chances of
selection, a duplication problem or triplication problem, or so on. We've got more than one opportunity for
people to come into the sample. And that means that we're going to
overrepresent people in this arrangement, who tend to be from smaller networks, relative to all of the persons
across the networks. We've got a potential for bias. And over representation and over sampling a person's coming from
certain kinds of smaller networks. In circumstances like that we would
use a way to compensate for it. But we are going to have to calculate,
figure out how what the sibling network is so that we know how many different ways
that could come in at the sample, and then we factor that into a waiting
factor for our particular case. Well here's a tabular display of
what happened for those 10 cases. There were actually 10
sample persons there. Sample person number one,
I didn't number them, but sample person number one happened to be,
has no living siblings. So they were all by themselves,
they're one of those singleton dots. And we asked them, have you ever been
told by a doctor that you have diabetes, by a medical doctor? And they say, no. Okay.
Now there are, in the network now, there's no cases of diabetes. There's only one represented there. That person, let's suppose that each
person was selected with a probability that we can identify and that person's weight corresponding
to that probability was 100. Their network size was one so their
chance of being in the sample is just based on that 1 in 100 probability that's
expressed in terms of the weight in 100. They have a network adjusted
person weight of 100. But now, let's look at the second
person going across the second line. They have two siblings,
that's one of those triangles. They have two living siblings. Now, none of them,
not the person who was selected nor any of the siblings have diabetes. Now we're going to collect the amount
of siblings from the informant, the sample person. But again, as we look across there,
the base probability for that person is 1 in 100, a weight of 100. There are three people in the network but
their weight now should be smaller. They have three times the chance of
being selected because they could have been selected alone or through
either one of their other siblings. So we're going to give them
a weight that is one-third as large since their probability
is three times larger. Let's try one with person number three who
comes from a quad, comes from that quad. There are four siblings all together. We selected one and there are three
others we haven't selected. The person we've interviewed
does not have diabetes, or has never been told
that they have diabetes. But one of their siblings does. Now in our network we've got
a contribution of one case of diabetes to what we're doing
among the total number of cases. The probability of selection in
that particular case, 1 in 200. And the network size is 4, so
the weight has to be adjusted. That weight of 200 has to be
adjusted by a factor of 1 in 4. Now we're assuming that all
the elements in the network have the same personal weight. There are some assumptions
going on here but you can see how what we're doing is
thinking through how does that network which we're now accessing as a way
to increase our sample size, how does that influence the chance of our
individual being selected and the members of the network being selected and how do
we compensate for that in our weighting? And so we have now network adjusted
person weights that accounts for that. So the network's sampling here is one in
which we use the network to expand through the network connections the number
of persons who are in our sample. Let's look at how this adjustment works. So we have, really, two cases of
diabetes among the sample persons. Among the living siblings
there are four more. So we've tripled the number
of cases of diabetes. There are 10 sample persons but 27 persons in the networks that I've
identified including the sample persons. If we just took the unweighted prevalence
among the sample persons, it would be 20%. And that's perfectly valid, but
it's only based on the sample of size 10. If we take the end weighted
prevalence among all the networks, the 6 divided by the 27 we see
that we've got a much lower rate, we're going to need to do a weighted
prevalence in that particular case. But our network adjusted weighted
prevalence comes out to be 0.256. And it's based now on 27 cases,
properly weighted to account for the multiple chances of selection that
are occurring, because of the networks and people being in those networks and reporting about other members through
those relationships in the network system. Okay, multiplicity sampling. This is not intended to give you
full tools on how to do this but to give you the idea about what happens
when we sample persons in networks. There are other kinds of network
sampling that occur in the survey realm. For example, this is one in which we have
two central nodes, star patterns, two star patterns, which are also connected
through one person in each of them. The outer circles around this pattern
are clients to insurance companies. They're people who receive health
insurance through a company. And the central circle in each
is the insurance company. Now our goal here was to
draw a sample of persons and identify characteristics about them. So we've drawn a sample of six persons and
we're going to collect data about them. But we also want to know about
their health insurance companies. And so what we're going to do is
identify the insurance carrier for each sample person. In this case there are two insurance
carriers across the six people. Five of the people are uniquely
associated with only one carrier. One person's associated with both. Now, we're going to have to figure out, what is the chance of the insurance
carrier coming into the sample? Well, we have to count all of
the people who are in the network. We're going to need a count on
the size of the insurance carrier, as well as any
interconnectivity that goes on. And we would go through and
systematically calculate for each of the insurance carriers,
what their chance of selection was based on the sampling rates we have for
the individual persons. Now, I won't go through
that kind of calculation. But you can see now how the network is
factored into a further expansion of our data collection to include, not just more
people, as in the previous example, but here, people as well as an organizational
unit, that we're very interested in. And we're going to combine both in our
single data collection through one sample of people, and then extract from that
information about insurance carriers and their probabilities of selection so that we can properly account for
their size contributions to the industry. All right, multiplicity network sampling. The principles that we've
been dealing with for probabilities, the randomized selection,
all of that kind of thing can be factored in through a waiting system
to allow us to utilize these networks as ways to increase our sample sizes,
or increase the diversity of our units. Persons as well as insurance companies. We have one last topic to talk about, our final topic,
lecture six on non-probability sampling. Just some thoughts about
non-probability sampling to wrap up what we've been doing as we
look at the last lecture in unit six next. Thank you.